[2021-08-10T19:59:10.264Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-08-10T19:59:10.264Z]	<mprorock>	Chair: manu
[2021-08-10T19:59:40.335Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-08-10T19:59:44.113Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2021-08-10T19:59:45.224Z]	<Mike_Varley>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:00:05.469Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:00:24.127Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:00:30.958Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:00:45.568Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:00:52.980Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:01:23.865Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:01:25.234Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:01:52.062Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:02:18.779Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:03:12.414Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:03:23.564Z]	<Kaliya_IdentityWoman>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:03:51.557Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:03:56.755Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:04:17.635Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:04:37.458Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	scribe: Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)
[2021-08-10T20:04:56.732Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:05:00.825Z]	<manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0127.html
[2021-08-10T20:06:02.093Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:06:14.773Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Topic: Intros
[2021-08-10T20:06:56.883Z]	<bobwyman>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:07:00.970Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	andrew_hughes: getting back into the game and catch up on spec evolution in the meantime
[2021-08-10T20:07:04.928Z]	<manu>	ack bob
[2021-08-10T20:07:14.861Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:07:15.896Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:07:29.526Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	bobwyman: been following the conversations for a long time, getting more directly/seriously involved now
[2021-08-10T20:08:08.149Z]	<Orie>	1969? are you a cobalt developer unicorn?
[2021-08-10T20:08:30.471Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... writing code since 1969 (ðŸ’ª), worked on early email systems, sold hypertext to the guys at CERN... infrastructure for information flows central to democracy
[2021-08-10T20:08:30.948Z]	<mprorock>	*cobol  i assume orie?
[2021-08-10T20:08:50.733Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	/me cobalt lol
[2021-08-10T20:09:04.182Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	manu: glad to have you guys here, thanks
[2021-08-10T20:09:07.579Z]	<manu>	Topic: VC HTTP API Renaming Poll
[2021-08-10T20:09:20.998Z]	<manu>	Ideas for renaming: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0124.html
[2021-08-10T20:09:24.765Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	manu: poll based on email threads over many weeks
[2021-08-10T20:09:51.862Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... using fancy polling software
[2021-08-10T20:09:55.873Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	I think given Orie's text, we should call it the VC Cobalt Unicorn API now
[2021-08-10T20:10:17.258Z]	<bobwyman>	https://www.linkedin.com/in/bobwyman/
[2021-08-10T20:10:31.611Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:11:08.653Z]	<mprorock>	+1 Cobalt Unicorn
[2021-08-10T20:11:11.470Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... will be run 2 days from now, open for a week
[2021-08-10T20:12:00.715Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... important to vote if you have skin in the game for this API specifically, even if not directly technical
[2021-08-10T20:12:16.188Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:12:16.861Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... there is also a blog post explaining some of the ins and outs of weighted voting
[2021-08-10T20:12:39.458Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to ask about the list of items included in the poll. URL?
[2021-08-10T20:12:47.486Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	mprorock: clarifying question about "names you definitely don't want"-- that part was a tiny bit confusing
[2021-08-10T20:13:10.657Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q- found it
[2021-08-10T20:13:13.731Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q-
[2021-08-10T20:13:20.594Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	https://www.opavote.com/en/vote/6226340995923968?p=1
[2021-08-10T20:13:23.007Z]	<manu>	ack mpro
[2021-08-10T20:14:35.672Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	jandrieu: isn't the second list just the first in reverse?
[2021-08-10T20:14:50.180Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	manu: no, opavote has fancy options
[2021-08-10T20:15:11.994Z]	<mprorock>	Instructions: Use the buttons to add choices to the ballot, and then drag to arrange them in order of preference with your "most disliked" at the top to "moderately disliked" at the bottom
[2021-08-10T20:15:18.821Z]	<mprorock>	second part of instructions note
[2021-08-10T20:15:23.392Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	jandrieu: but can't you just fill out the second list as the exact reverse of the first?
[2021-08-10T20:15:38.903Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-10T20:15:49.574Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	manu: well, most people won't fill out all 17 in both lists... use the second list only for the ones you really DON'T want to see
[2021-08-10T20:16:09.392Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	manu: polling algorithms are very complicated... opavote let's us change algorithm after the fact, in some cases the lists are mirror opposites, in other cases they're not, we're running two data collection runs in case we pick a tallying mechanism that doesn't produce mirror opposites just to be safe so we don't have to run it all over again.
[2021-08-10T20:16:18.597Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	(scribe aside: +1 voting math is hard)
[2021-08-10T20:15:55.641Z]	<manu>	Topic: Feature Scoping
[2021-08-10T20:16:01.035Z]	<manu>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0122.html
[2021-08-10T20:16:39.791Z]	<manu>	Email that went out to mailing list about this ^^^
[2021-08-10T20:16:57.768Z]	<manu>	Attempt at summarizing current scope: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hlevKRxCXsJBWvJTkL30nZVp8cpF26aY3PJqzuHtIZE/edit
[2021-08-10T20:17:18.390Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	manu: email will help focus scope questions, based on various inputs from the group: use cases to date, new diagrams, and resolutions over last few months
[2021-08-10T20:17:33.597Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	...screensharing now (spreadsheet from email above)
[2021-08-10T20:18:44.639Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... note link column where more details specs or spec drafts exist
[2021-08-10T20:19:11.188Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:19:11.244Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-10T20:19:14.877Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to ask what that means
[2021-08-10T20:19:19.826Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... expectation/hope is that discussion and resolutions can decide some of these open questions
[2021-08-10T20:19:24.148Z]	<Mike_Varley>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:19:26.662Z]	<mprorock>	q+ to mention CRUD operations
[2021-08-10T20:19:32.077Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	agropper: External trust issues
[2021-08-10T20:20:01.368Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... if holder application is external, is the request resulting from the presentation crossing an external boundary?
[2021-08-10T20:20:24.527Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... secondly, are "client credentials" involved in accepting the presentation?
[2021-08-10T20:20:29.782Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	q?
[2021-08-10T20:20:36.303Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	ack Joe
[2021-08-10T20:20:38.384Z]	<manu>	ack adr
[2021-08-10T20:20:39.890Z]	<manu>	ack joe
[2021-08-10T20:20:43.504Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-10T20:21:11.429Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	jandrieu: I'm still confused about the naming, mapping roles and software to the name of the API they use
[2021-08-10T20:21:30.284Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:21:40.156Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	manu: issuer may have a verifier backend they use to check or parse a VP...
[2021-08-10T20:21:44.607Z]	<dmitriz>	I assumed what was meant by Issuer is - if the issuer is hosting a revocation list / bitmap
[2021-08-10T20:21:53.491Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	jandrieu: but in that case, it's not ACTING AS an issuer, which is exactly my point
[2021-08-10T20:21:59.990Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... about roles and services
[2021-08-10T20:22:18.511Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... being manu: does the changes i'm making on screenshare address that?
[2021-08-10T20:22:37.840Z]	<manu>	ack Mike
[2021-08-10T20:22:58.018Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	(manu duplicates some rows to create distinctions based on client and server)
[2021-08-10T20:23:12.369Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	mike_varley: issuer deliver credential to holder doesn't seem to be a row here?
[2021-08-10T20:23:25.810Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... am I misreading or did I miss that being put out of scope by the group?
[2021-08-10T20:23:49.174Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Manu: I think you mean rows 9, 10 and/or 11 but i'm not sure
[2021-08-10T20:23:53.077Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	jandrieu: I doubt it
[2021-08-10T20:23:53.974Z]	<Mike_Varley>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:23:59.104Z]	<manu>	ack mpro
[2021-08-10T20:24:02.834Z]	<TallTed>	is that Issuance? (first item)
[2021-08-10T20:24:23.160Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Mprorock: want to clarify that some of these rows in out of scope divide labor with EDV spec
[2021-08-10T20:25:08.089Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... which is REST-based and get some clarity on how CRUD works there and if this spec should be explicit about what CRUD ops are possible there
[2021-08-10T20:25:18.437Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	manu: that's a good point
[2021-08-10T20:25:38.197Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... of these three scope questions, which would be easiest to address?
[2021-08-10T20:26:11.519Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... for lack on input, i'll address mike prorock's concern first
[2021-08-10T20:27:02.544Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... EDV spec is a good reference for a neutral, open API for storing VCs, doing CRUD on them as objects over REST, etc
[2021-08-10T20:28:07.029Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	mprorock: GET, PUT, etc are defined there, and we are leaning more towards controller APIs here, so the REST stuff can happen there.... but let's be more explicit
[2021-08-10T20:28:36.280Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... if we are putting it out of scope, we should point them there as a complementary spec for questions devs new to the space will naturally have upon reading this spec
[2021-08-10T20:29:01.323Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-10T20:29:05.375Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:29:14.635Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	(manu live-edits the notes column to be more explanatory about the link column as complementary to this being out of scope here)
[2021-08-10T20:29:18.178Z]	<manu>	ack joe
[2021-08-10T20:29:40.037Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	jandrieu: it's not clear to me if this a new issue or a non-issue, but what is this presentation service? is that new?
[2021-08-10T20:30:55.488Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:31:00.123Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	manu: We were talking about a Holder Service, and it was confusing people... note the actions taken in the columns from the holder services above... i tried this neologism to clarify two diff things we've been calling holder services
[2021-08-10T20:31:36.838Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	jandrieu: But aren't both beholden to the holder? Aren't these transports, not services in rows 9-10-11?
[2021-08-10T20:31:39.677Z]	<Orie>	See the breakdown here: https://gnarly.or13.io/
[2021-08-10T20:31:56.478Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	orie, q+ plz
[2021-08-10T20:32:00.123Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-10T20:32:08.302Z]	<Orie>	Holder same trust domain vs Holder cross trust domain.
[2021-08-10T20:32:11.142Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-08-10T20:32:50.626Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	orie: I think we should split up APIs that are internal-only from APIs that aren't-- i broke them up in my gnarly prototype/strawman
[2021-08-10T20:33:03.641Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... and i think we should call them exchange, not a service
[2021-08-10T20:33:14.118Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... because it obscures the boundary issues
[2021-08-10T20:33:16.066Z]	<Mike_Varley>	"Presentation Service" - is this not a Verifer Service? Or is there no obligation to 'verify' ?
[2021-08-10T20:33:27.371Z]	<Orie>	I called them "Holder" and "Exchange"
[2021-08-10T20:33:31.449Z]	<Orie>	in the proposal above
[2021-08-10T20:33:46.129Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	jandrieu: I'm down for exchange, or transport, just not service
[2021-08-10T20:33:52.246Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-10T20:33:53.757Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-08-10T20:34:11.457Z]	<DavidC>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:35:09.619Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	agropper: external clients necessarily entail client credentials, client censorship, client power relations...
[2021-08-10T20:35:27.737Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	q+ to ask about 'subject of the credential authenticates before obtaining the VC'
[2021-08-10T20:35:42.635Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-10T20:35:45.909Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... if the request is an API rather than a form after you authenticate, then the API is now external... that's my question
[2021-08-10T20:35:47.718Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:35:49.950Z]	<manu>	ack davidc
[2021-08-10T20:36:00.009Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	DavidC: I'm going to repeat a comment i made 6 months ago
[2021-08-10T20:36:18.848Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... i still don't really understand the architecture, could we just map the services?
[2021-08-10T20:36:57.787Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	scribe aside: page 4 here is partial
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit#
[2021-08-10T20:37:25.062Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	DavidC: to put it another way, scope might be easier to decide after clarifying architectural assumptions a bit
[2021-08-10T20:37:54.819Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-08-10T20:38:08.211Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-10T20:38:08.211Z]	<manu>	ack davidc
[2021-08-10T20:38:10.448Z]	<manu>	ack andrew
[2021-08-10T20:38:11.285Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Andrew: I want to clarify something about Adrian's question: the subject of a credential isn't the only party that has to authenticate, and non-interactive presentations are in scope, yes?
[2021-08-10T20:38:13.012Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-08-10T20:38:14.331Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Many: yes,
[2021-08-10T20:38:27.383Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	manu: Yes, andrew, thanks for clarifying
[2021-08-10T20:40:10.139Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Manu: Returning to adrian's question, I think that many of the rows in the Out-of-scope section are implicating directly in many of the use cases you have brought up; the cruise ship, for example, is mostly about EDV APIs, not the rows9-11 (credential exchange) APIs
[2021-08-10T20:40:36.530Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... guardianship and delegation can happen at the holder/access/authZ level, and is better supported there
[2021-08-10T20:40:47.351Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:41:45.226Z]	<TallTed>	It seems to me that some of this might be made clearer by moving Action to come first.  It would also help to item-number these -- not in priority or action order, per se -- just so we can say things like "API calls 1-7"
[2021-08-10T20:41:47.618Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... rows 9-11 is where we get into more public-facing, client-credential-free APIs
[2021-08-10T20:42:02.938Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... at least, that is one way of further specifying 9-11
[2021-08-10T20:42:06.191Z]	<manu>	ack Adrian
[2021-08-10T20:42:38.563Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	agropper: the features out of scope I am not talking about here. What I don't understand is if there is an external request API
[2021-08-10T20:42:49.991Z]	<TallTed>	q+ to suggest the above numbering and rearrangement
[2021-08-10T20:43:17.853Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Manu: Yes, rows 9-11 are EXTERNAL APIs for pull-based or push-based VP flows (no authentication aside from DIDAuth, open APIs)
[2021-08-10T20:43:53.500Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	agropper: So someone brings a request for a VC or VP to those APIs?
[2021-08-10T20:44:23.701Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Manu: row 9 is for initiating a  flow
[2021-08-10T20:44:26.752Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:44:37.421Z]	<mprorock>	q-
[2021-08-10T20:45:07.326Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Orie: The current endpoints in trace-vocab  describe a holder asking the verifier for a challenge and domain
[2021-08-10T20:45:22.444Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... i.e., initiating a push-based flow with a verifier that knows you
[2021-08-10T20:45:26.247Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to say isn't that holder->verifier
[2021-08-10T20:45:28.080Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie, well stated
[2021-08-10T20:46:08.611Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... what's confusing is that most use-cases we talk about is verifier-centric and pull-based, a verifier advertising an endpoint for holders to bring their credentials to (covid creds or discount coupons)
[2021-08-10T20:46:11.022Z]	<manu>	ack TallTed
[2021-08-10T20:46:28.224Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	TallTed: I'm thinking this would be clearer just reordering the columns
[2021-08-10T20:46:32.620Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	+1
[2021-08-10T20:46:36.922Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	(scribe aside^)
[2021-08-10T20:46:44.587Z]	<Orie>	+1 Ted
[2021-08-10T20:46:53.145Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	TallTed: I would also recommend we number/order these a little more deliberately
[2021-08-10T20:47:14.489Z]	<manu>	ack Joe
[2021-08-10T20:47:17.430Z]	<manu>	ack TallTed
[2021-08-10T20:47:18.786Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-10T20:47:39.201Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	jandrieu: We've still not clarified the initiator of various flows, and Orie's explanation surprised me a bit
[2021-08-10T20:47:56.779Z]	<Orie>	please read
[2021-08-10T20:47:57.635Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/blob/main/holder.yml#L61
[2021-08-10T20:48:01.598Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... Orie's example seemed to describe a valid use case initiated differently than I was assuming
[2021-08-10T20:48:14.330Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/blob/main/holder.yml#L87
[2021-08-10T20:48:29.386Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-10T20:48:30.113Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Manu: I have to confess that 7&8 have confused me persistently, I look forward to clarifying them
[2021-08-10T20:48:42.346Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Scribe aside: you are one of us use-case guys, Joe
[2021-08-10T20:48:46.944Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	:D
[2021-08-10T20:49:02.871Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	jandrieu: Use case guys could really help clarify this
[2021-08-10T20:49:09.888Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	...whoever they may be
[2021-08-10T20:49:15.837Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	agropper: I'm still confused
[2021-08-10T20:49:28.231Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:49:35.399Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... and I already explained what I'm confused about in email, which won't be resolved today
[2021-08-10T20:49:48.060Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-08-10T20:50:21.998Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Orie: returning to exchange APIs as machine-to-machine services, regulated and acting according to the kinds of patterns they tend to do
[2021-08-10T20:50:44.733Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... in backend-backend data flows, which can be interactive or can be "fire and forget"/firehose-style
[2021-08-10T20:51:24.798Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... two SERVICES that know each other and communicate/sync/replicate according to policies
[2021-08-10T20:51:34.095Z]	<manu>	ack Mike
[2021-08-10T20:51:57.492Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... can use these APIs to do their thing; the push/pull thing maps to two major patterns in how backend-backend flows work generally
[2021-08-10T20:52:24.216Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	mike_varley: these ??? service rows (7-8-9 in explicit numbers, 9-10-11 in excel row#s)
[2021-08-10T20:53:07.693Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... seems to me an alternative to or equivalent to CHAPI "STORE" calls.  is that accurate?
[2021-08-10T20:53:36.032Z]	<Orie>	its push because it starts with a network request from the prover.
[2021-08-10T20:53:52.180Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-08-10T20:53:53.802Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Manu: Yes, CHAPI could be used for line 8 (implicit 10), "push-based",
[2021-08-10T20:53:57.549Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	isn't the "prover" the "holder", Orie?
[2021-08-10T20:54:17.305Z]	<Orie>	the word holder is less helpful
[2021-08-10T20:54:27.349Z]	<Orie>	both sides are going to be holders.
[2021-08-10T20:54:29.255Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	perhaps, but it is the term in the VC spec
[2021-08-10T20:54:29.732Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... this row could link to CHAPI if the group found it adequate to the use-cases, or specify/identify something else if not
[2021-08-10T20:54:44.861Z]	<Orie>	the first guy is going to authenticate
[2021-08-10T20:54:48.888Z]	<Orie>	as part of the VP.
[2021-08-10T20:54:52.622Z]	<Orie>	hense push
[2021-08-10T20:55:37.154Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-10T20:55:39.094Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-08-10T20:55:41.955Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... it's called "start/continue presentation workflow" because it can redirect to a new channel, and can even loop or iterate in generative ways
[2021-08-10T20:56:28.693Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	Orie: The endpoints and architectural assumptions here are informed by CHAPI precedent and VP Request spec
[2021-08-10T20:56:46.977Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... but pull/push here refers to who initiates and when the challenge/domain happen
[2021-08-10T20:58:07.182Z]	<mprorock>	+1 definitely right direction
[2021-08-10T20:58:17.397Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	... so when a CHAPI website gives a CHAPI wallet a challenge, and gets back a VP signing over that challenge, that's one of the two patterns here, it could be more general but doesn't preclude CHAPI being an adequate way of doing this
[2021-08-10T20:58:40.771Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	scribe aside: this spreadsheet helps a lot, we use case guys will look at this with or without Joe
[2021-08-10T20:58:44.984Z]	<Mike_Varley>	+1 right direction
[2021-08-10T20:59:00.164Z]	<mprorock>	this stuff is work in progress that will evolve over time, and this feels much more defined than we have had to date
[2021-08-10T20:59:29.234Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	manu: use case guys, please email the list with an update or some proposals to clarify or iterate
[2021-08-10T20:59:48.058Z]	<Juan_(Spherity_GmbH)>	manu: and that's a wrap
