Thanks to Mahmoud Alkhraishi and heather_vescent for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Credentials CG telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-07-27 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Credentials CG Telecon Minutes for 2021-07-27

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jul/0236.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions & Reintroductions
  2. Work Item: vc-jwt-interop
  3. Work Items: did.tz & did.pkh
  4. EDV 101
  5. ID Hubs
Organizer:
  Wayne Chang and Heather Vescent and Mike Prorock
Scribe:
  Mahmoud Alkhraishi and heather_vescent
Present:
  Heather Vescent, Mike Prorock, Steve Gance, Manu Sporny, Mahmoud 
  Alkhraishi, Charles E. Lehner, Dmitri Z, Kristina Yasuda, TallTed 
  // Ted Thibodeau (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com), Wayne Chang, Erica 
  Connell, Phil L (P1), Kaliya Young, Juan Caballero, Ted 
  Thibodeau, Dan Bachenheimer (Accenture), BalÃ¡zs NÃ©methi, Derek 
  Trider, Dmitri Zagidulin, Orie Steele, James Chartrand, Derek 
  Callaway, Nikos Fotiou, Taylor Kendall, Jeff Orgel, Mike 
  Schwartz, Kayode Ezike, Brian Richter, Phil Archer
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-07-27/audio.ogg

<heather_vescent> Minutes: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
<heather_vescent> Scribe Selection: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit#heading=h.ngyk8y939osi
<mahmoud> i'll scribe
Mahmoud Alkhraishi is scribing.
No problem
<by_caballero> thanks mahmoud!

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

Heather Vescent:  IP Note/Scribe/Selection/Communication Method 
  jitsi etc.
Heather Vescent:  Introductions?
Manu Sporny:  Dan would you be able to intro?
Derek Callaway:  Working on EDV spec as an editor, here to see 
  Manu and Co present some updates to everyone. Pretty new to the 
  whole thing and trying to learn!
Heather Vescent:  Any reintroductions? Kristina?

Topic: Work Item: vc-jwt-interop

Kristina Yasuda:  Kristina, Identity Standards from Microsoft, 
  looking for updates from EDVs and looking for vc-jwt-interop!
<heather_vescent> New Work Items: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22action%3A+review+next%22
Heather Vescent:  Couple of different work items that have been 
  submitted last week
<heather_vescent> Issue 198: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/198
  ...: Starting with issue 198 first and if we don't have time 
  we'll punt, just to confirm kristina you're here to talk about 
  198 right?
Kristina Yasuda:  Yes
Heather Vescent:  Wanted to give opportunity to the folks on the 
  thread and we'll timebox it to 10 minutes
Juan Caballero:  Happy to contextualize it, the VC-HTTP-API group 
  had a few discussions about this mostly on github/mailing list 
  and we discussed it on this call and just for the sake of trying 
  to parallelize work and to break apart some open questions and 
  bring back a defined package to it, as a concrete proposal. The 
  conversation on github has been about which spec/ how to use/ how 
  to constrain/ different types of json-ld interop in/out of scope 
  etc. In terms of the work item if theres volunteers who want to 
  help define the normative areas, we're looking for examples test 
  vectors and more. Charles and I are looking for input and are 
  happy to drive as editors and we're open to negotiation and 
  concensus
Manu Sporny:  Huge +1 to this work its important that it gets 
  done, for those without backgroudn the vc jot stuff was injected 
  to the VC spec at the 11th hour which resulted in a bunch of 
  non-interop work. and the other thing i wanted to suggest is to 
  feel free to break the VC spec , i think some decisions made on 
  the VC spec last minute have not been great, and i think that the 
  people who care about the VC jots should get together and do the 
  right thing rather than follow VC spec ot the letter
<by_caballero> got it, will move fast and break everything, check
<orie> as long as the "breaking differences" are externalized in 
  a format that communicates why we are breaking from the spec.
  ...: when the VC working group is recharted we can say we got 
  it wrong and we have demonstratable interop now and lets fix it
<by_caballero> yup fulltime for spruce
<orie> I am happy to help support the work item as Transmute.
<by_caballero> both of us
<by_caballero> ^^
<by_caballero> well that was easy
Heather Vescent:  I had a question about the work item owners, it 
  requires two different owners from different companies, are you 
  both representing spruce or another org? is there a third owner ?
  ...: orie is willing to join and that will satisfy the 
  conditions
<by_caballero> HARDEN that fluff
Kristina Yasuda:  In the conversations theres a dif working group 
  the  hope is not to break the vc data model sure theres some 
  fluffy places that need to be cleared out, but we're trying to do 
  it within the VC data model boundaries, atleast that is the ideal 
  direction.
<manu_sporny> Yes, agree with Kristina... break the JWT-VC 
  portion of the spec... not the entire VC spec. :)
<manu_sporny> (and ideally, just harden up the fluff)
Juan Caballero: 
  https://blog.identity.foundation/dif-grant-1-jws-test-suite/
Heather Vescent:  Any other comments?
Juan Caballero:  I just wanted to point out Kristina is referring 
  to this work item in DIF, which is the detached signature proof 
  spec
<orie> DIF C&C announcement: 
  https://blog.identity.foundation/dif-grant-1-jws-test-suite/
<orie> JWS LD Proofs != VC-JWT :)
Juan Caballero:  Many people are asking what is the division of 
  labour, the DIF one is more of a conformance spec and this is 
  more of an interop spec and it could include the JWS spec and 
  others. and i think since a lot of us are participating in both 
  we can keep the two aligned and non-redundant
<kristina> thanks for the clarification, Juan!
Charles E. Lehner:  I think everything important i wanted to said 
  is covered and im looking forward to working with you all.
<by_caballero> apologies to Orie for mangling that explanation ðŸ™ˆ
Heather Vescent:  Haven't heard any issues or concerns, are there 
  any issues? if so raise on the call or on github. if none within 
  a week looks like we have support on this work item
<orie> you DID fine Juan :)
<by_caballero> i can be quick
Heather Vescent:  Do you think we have time to go through the 
  other work items?

Topic: Work Items: did.tz & did.pkh

https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/200
https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/202
Juan Caballero:  I think i can cover both in five minutes. the 
  did:tz is specific to the tezos blockchain it has some sidetree 
  bits attached and because theres two different teams in the tezos 
  ecosystem we wanted to work on the spec together in the open, 
  since we have two companies working together we thought it sbest 
  to do it here.
<orie> its a registry for blockchain account identifierrs
<mprorock> StreamType right?
Orie Steele: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/security-vocab/#blockchainAccountId
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/ChainAgnostic/CAIPs/blob/master/CAIPs/caip-10.md
  ...: the PKH one is similar to did:key and it lets you generate 
  it from a pk hash which is a hash of a public key. and all the 
  pkh are indexed in an open source way to assume certain things 
  like if its this kind of BC address tis a hash of this kind of 
  key. Its a place to hadnle all those transformations in an open 
  source library. Its not really a full featured did method but its 
  more like a more fully featured did:key. Were working with Joel 
  who is more active in DID and that community and we want this to 
  be a public community so please feel free to drop in
Orie Steele: Did:web + did:key only in CCG :) lol...
<mprorock> lol
Manu Sporny:  +1 Supportive of both items, we had a discussion 
  about if we do did:methods in the CCG and we had a decent chunk 
  of the community that didn't want that, its mostly from people 
  who are opposed to DLTs in the credentials. I think tis great 
  that we can do that, and we definitely want to talk about 
  did:v1/did:web/did:key in here aswell
  ...: its partially a question but im supportive of the 
  direction and wouldnt want to send this work elsewhere, are we 
  entering a new phase where we work on it in the CCG?
<kristina> I thought Juan framed this as NOT being a DID method 
  exactly?
<manu_sporny> Well, it is, tho :) ... starts with did:...
Orie Steele: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-method-key
Orie Steele: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/did-method-web
<manu_sporny> Yep, neither which are DLT-based DID Methods :)
Charles E. Lehner: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/didm-btcr/
<orie> ahh, yeah... lets keep the blockchain folks at DIF :)
<orie> /s
<orie> :)
Heather Vescent:  Thats a great question, and perhaps this is 
  also time for us to discuss what will be happening with the kind 
  of work that was discussed in the DID working group. if its 
  completing its work what happens to that work, do we want to take 
  on some disucssions? my question to juan was are looking for an 
  open meeting, are you looking for a new meeting or is this part 
  of an existing meeting or is it part of ccg call?
<manu_sporny> (BTCR was grand-parented-in... IIUC)
Orie Steele: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/didm-btcr/
Juan Caballero:  Let me just say the PKH one is much more 
  important to get outside feedback and keep in the open, i really 
  would like that to be a ccg item at some point maybe periodic but 
  not weekly meetings.
<manu_sporny> See comment above, Orie ^^^
<manu_sporny> In other words, we've NOT been talking about Veres 
  One in this group because we thought that would be bad form... 
  but if form is changing... then :))))
  ...: the tezos one i didn't know theres a boundary on DIDs and 
  it doesn't necessary need to be public regular meetings, it was 
  more like we want todo it on github and present a checkin in 8-10 
  weeks and present to the group
Heather Vescent:  My question is just we have so many 
  meetings/task force and we don't want to add more, if theres a 
  place to have them or to alternate or if you need some space we 
  can talk to the chairs and figure something out
<manu_sporny> (said in Orie voice) I look forward to 47+ DID 
  Method task forces joining CCG :P
<kristina> will did:pkh be registered as a did method by CCG?
<heather_vescent> lol Manu
Kristina Yasuda: ':P' in did:pkh turning into :p lol
<orie> we could move the identity methods to DIF, and keep CCC 
  "credentials" focused :)
<manu_sporny> Kristina, did : pkh has already been registered... 
  IIRC
<by_caballero> ^^ it has!
<cel> registered here: 
  https://github.com/w3c/did-spec-registries/pull/319
<kristina> from spruce?
Mike Schwartz:  I think that on the PKH side of things one of the 
  things is its not the same as did:key or did:web but it has more 
  similar properties to that as its not explicitly tied to one 
  ledger or another. I think theres broad benefits from the 
  community but i think manu is raising interesting points, do we 
  really want to open the floodgates? but i think some things are 
  beneficial from a broader community perspective
<kristina> thanks for catching me up!
Juan Caballero:  I don't want to drag this out but the PKH is 
  more like DID:KEY than a blockchain did method, and for that 
  reason i assumed its more like specifying did:key in ccg than 
  did:btcr
<mprorock> it is a means of using did:key style stuff while 
  pointing to external public keys - definitely interesting
  ...: and it has already been registered this was more of a 
  consultative thing and gather use-cases and it isnt being 
  specified in a way that is restrictive
Charles E. Lehner: Did:pkh could potentially support 
  non-blockchain public key hashes.
<manu_sporny> We're trying to hit 1,000 DID Methods by the end of 
  the year! :P
<kristina> why do we want even more did methods?
Mike Prorock: +1 Multicodec might be an interesting path to take
<manu_sporny> /me was joking, we definitely don't want more DID 
  Methods unless the new ones provide utility.
Orie Steele:  Regarding the CIAP table it is in a way reinventing 
  aspects of the multi-codec table but in a world where we ant 
  these things to be did:key whether its a hash of a key or 
  something. We can just register them in the multi-codec table and 
  we can jsut expand did:key to support keys that are hashes of 
  keys, its really not tha thard to do but there might be a really 
  good reason to not extend did:key to support that thing. I'll 
  note did:key has some snowflake properties
Orie Steele:  Similarly with BLS g1/g2 theres a key 
  representation where you end up with 2 Public keys in one 
  did:document
Wayne Chang:  Initial approach was to increase did:key, the 
  CAIP-10 isn't normative, there might not be a CAIP-10 entry due 
  to the fact that some of them aren't blockchains. One of the 
  requirements is we aren't encoding in base58 or multi-codec as it 
  mangles the string and you can no longer visually scan. if we can 
  keep that in we can continue discussions about fitting in 
  did:key.
<by_caballero> sorry i promised 5 minutes ðŸ™ˆ
<by_caballero> apologies to dmitri and derek
<by_caballero> and kaliya
<manu_sporny> I would like us to have a deeper discussion on the 
  topic at a later time... can see benefits and drawbacks.
Heather Vescent:  This conversation got much deeper than we 
  thought it would, do we need a  conversation about DID:methods 
  being included?
<kristina> me too
<mprorock> i think community scope discussion in order at later 
  time
Heather Vescent:  Lets shelve the did:pkh and tz and talk about 
  it in a future meeting
Heather Vescent:  Onto the main event i'm passing it to kaliya 
  who is presenting on the EDV activities

Topic: EDV 101

<heather_vescent> Fantastic Manu. Thank you
Manu Sporny:  I approached this as a CCG 101 just to remind 
  everyone on the use-cases we 're trying to identify here.
  ...: EDV we're really looking at a number of use cases, how do 
  we make storage providers a commodity and make it confidential so 
  the provider does not see the data, how do we unified across 
  devices and sharing across groups? how do we ensure continues 
  backup mechanism? how do we store data off the DLT to protect 
  from compromise? how do we do wallet data portability, and how do 
  we use with ID hub?
  ...: the suggestion is EDVs has a place in all the use cases. 
<orie> Sounds more like standards compliant "last pass"
  ...: the second case is Unified Storage, a lot of the cases 
  sound like dropbox/gdrive/ondrive with a twist that its 
  encrypted. The idea behind unified storage is you use multiple 
  devices and the devices are available regardless of which device. 
  The other important thing is if you lose your device you don't 
  have to worry about data loss.
  ...: i think this is like a standards compliant Last Pass.
  ...: the other thing is they are trying to unify the way we 
  share stuff, how do we have a vault where the 
  doctor/patient/hospital access records and help them do the job 
  they need to do while respective the patient's agency. This has 
  lots to do with auth to access in a standards way. If you think 
  now most apps that do sharing aren't standardized and thats what 
  we're trying to do
  ...: there's also a continuous backup use case where if you 
  have zero-trust, either to always be there or to not snoop, i.e. 
  if a company explodes for w.e reason. Because storage is cheap 
  its easy to replicate things to your own home and devices. You 
  cannot be held hostage to their TOS or being a perma-customer 
  et.c
  ...: automatic failover resync on recovery.
  ...: theres also offdata storage, like in the case of supply 
  chains, you don't really want to store encrypted data to a ledger 
  as it always has a shelf life, what you want to do is point to 
  where the data is stored off ledger.
  ...: Finally when talking about VCs and credential 
  repositories, one way is to give the individual to switch data 
  providers, in theory, and we want this to be the ideal you should 
  be able to change the provider and you can split the storage of 
  credentials from teh entity giving you the digital wallet.
  ...: theres an ID hub backing storage, to use EDV. We've spent 
  a lot of time to align them
  ...: What does an EDV actually do? EDVS are simple things: they 
  let you store files in an encrypted fashio nin a vault: 5 
  operations CREATe READ UPDATE DELETE QUERY. theres some share 
  stuff as well but you can think of it as a folder.
All operations between individual and EDV client is unencrypted 
  but once it hits the EDV server it only sees encrypted data.
  ...: and that in general is the design of the system and that 
  basically it!
  ...: maybe the chairs can go into status and where we are.
Manu Sporny: https://identity.foundation/edv-spec/
  ...; As Derek has mentioned He has joined as an editor, and 
  here is a link to the spec, we have 5 implementations, and theyr 
  estill experimentlal and trying to get to conformance test suite, 
  as far as tech is concerned its moving forward and people are 
  implementing it.
  ...: and we're working on PRs and Issues every week.
<derek_trider> Great, thanks Manu!
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  What's the current status of the spec, and 
  what's the path forward, and what are the challenges for 
  adoption?
<by_caballero> not having did:pkh is a challenge to adoption ;)
<by_caballero> (ducks)
<mprorock> lol
<manu_sporny> ha! *throws duck*
<kristina> are there links to the implementations if available? 
  don't see in the draft spec
<manu_sporny> There are not :(
<manu_sporny> I don't know if we have a list anywhere
Dimitri: Current status is it is actively being worked on by a 
  Joint working group by CCG and DIF, weekly calls and we have two 
  specs, they are not chartered for work groups. Challenges to 
  adoption: one of the challenges is that unlike other storage 
  services which manage your encryption keys for you, one of the 
  core goals is you and your client/software manage your keys. The 
  storage provider don't have any access to your data. The reason 
  is that managing encryption keys is still a very new and a 
  challenge from both human UI, and from a tooling and library 
  perspective. We feel its overcome-able with the usual array of 
  tools, user education etc.
<kristina> oh ok, I thought I heard there are in the question, 
  thanks!
<derek_trider> @manu Maybe we should add a list to the spec
<manu_sporny> Kristina, there are implementations - we just don't 
  have the list written down anywhere.
<manu_sporny> Derek, I do think that would be a good idea.
<kristina> thanks
<orie> demo videos related to the universal wallet spec
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/universal-wallet-interop-spec/issues/56
Phil Archer:  There seems like theres an implication of digital 
  wallets or a spec of digital wallet, A has that entered design 
  considerations here? and secondly how would this work within the 
  context of the actual process of creating a VP from the wallet or 
  does it not matter how the storage is abstracted?
Dimitri: it is very much a part of the design consideration of 
  the group, it was the primary use case we started with. we didn't 
  want to presume people would use EDVs as backing stores, and most 
  shouldn't assume EDVs behind the scenes, but EDVs have good 
  stories to tell in data portability and not being locked into 
  vendors etc.
<orie> For example: 
  https://github.com/transmute-industries/verifiable-data/tree/main/packages/universal-wallet-edv-plugin
Orie Steele:  Theres a link to a video recording syncing wallet 
  content presented to that working group over a year ago, i don't 
  think EDVs should be exposed as a wallet interface, theres 
  software libraries today that help you if you use edvs as a 
  backing storage today
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Conceptually speaking, the EDV is the bucket 
  itself? a layer on top of it? is it the client talking to the 
  bucket?
heather_vescent is scribing.
<orie> bucket = edv vault / bucket content = bucket file
<orie> each file is encrypted
Manu Sporny:  Its an interface layer on top of the storage 
  mechanism [scribe assist by Mahmoud Alkhraishi]

Topic: ID Hubs

Mahmoud Alkhraishi: Dimitri: pluggable backend stores is one of 
  the goals of this stores.
<orie> our implementation uses mongo db as backing store, but the 
  interface is pretty easy to implement.
<by_caballero> very pluggable! semantics! it handles everything! 
  all it cares about is JSON blobs!
<by_caballero> (sorry trying to channel dan)
<manu_sporny> MORE Dan Buchner (said to the tune of "More 
  cowbell")
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: Dimitri: ID hubs are another task force of 
  the  Secure data storage working group, they're a higher level 
  spec, if EDVS deal with low level crud ID hubs are more towards 
  the higher ends, personal data store end of spectrum. it is not 
  focused on encryption more on public data. it is IPFS based 
  storage core, with a layer of application logic on top with an 
  auth layer. one of the goals being transparent replication 
  between a person's various hubs.
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: ...: Hubs can be easy to use and convenient 
  data storage applications for many clients, there's an intended 
  level of interops with DIDs  you'll find ID hub section in your 
  DID document in order to reference a file you'd use a DID:URL 
  reference a did:resolver and fetch a file from it.
<kristina> if you can access EDV using DID, will that make it 
  also an ID Hub? probably a silly question
Kaliya Young:  The storage will serve users if it has some 
  understanding of the metadata around particular types of data for 
  EX. my playlist, while the hub will not see the playlist it will 
  know there is a playlist inside of it and share it on my behalf. 
  [scribe assist by Mahmoud Alkhraishi]
<manu_sporny> Kristina, not a silly question ... Hubs are a layer 
  on top of EDVs (at least that's what's expected right now)
<kristina> ok, so more like ID Hub be btw user and EDV like in 
  EDV presentation
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: Dimitri: what you're seeing here is public 
  collections are the primary use case, to support to do lists 
  music etc. this doesnt show the auth layer but there is one 
  between you and your data.
<manu_sporny> Kristina, yep, exactly.
<by_caballero> daniel would be proud
Manu Sporny: +1 To provide more time for Hub use cases.
Heather Vescent:  Just wondering as we've gone a bit over on the 
  discussions today and if we can have the time to go over them in 
  depth in the future in the community. [scribe assist by Mahmoud 
  Alkhraishi]
<by_caballero> further info on the hotel travel plans can be 
  found somewhere on the sprawling website of the hospitality and 
  travel working group at DIF
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: +1
Mike Prorock: +1
<kayode_ezike> Don't know of this was shared earlier, but can we 
  have links to both presentations?
Juan Caballero: 
  https://www.notion.so/dif/HOSPITALITY-TRAVEL-SIG-242105321e1747f8bce776bf634a55b3
Kaliya Young:  Theres now a weekly implementer call for ID hub 
  and a biweekly spec discussion call, and i'm sure we'd love to 
  come back to talk but the split is pretty recent and we should 
  let them progress a little more especially on the hub side. 
  [scribe assist by Mahmoud Alkhraishi]
<manu_sporny> Kayode, EDV link: 
  https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Ra55nRFMacSSBzhZ-Q-FbcEiUdSk2QTJk_avAv8bgzo/edit
<kayode_ezike> Thanks Manu!
<by_caballero> haha yeah answer is "it's complicated" :D
<jeffo-stl> ya Manu, ditto!
<manu_sporny> Hub + EDV relationship status: It's complicated.
Heather Vescent:  Really excited to follow up behind the scenes 
  so folks can join in one of your calls and do a chat, does that 
  sound good? [scribe assist by Mahmoud Alkhraishi]
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: Dimitri: juries still out on the interop 
  between edvs and hbus but the current composition is fairly new
<by_caballero> both seeing other people but still in love
Dmitri Zagidulin:  This is the Thursday call, that alternates 
  [scribe assist by Mahmoud Alkhraishi]
<manu_sporny> Polyamorous Protocols.
<tayken> Thanks all! Great stuff as always :)
Heather Vescent:  Thanks for coming and thanks to everyone 
  [scribe assist by Mahmoud Alkhraishi]
