
[2021-08-16T15:01:23.323Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie>  Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0209.html
[2021-08-16T15:01:23.324Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie>  Topic: 0. Moderator: Start Recording
[2021-08-16T15:01:23.324Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie>  Topic: 1. Agenda Review
[2021-08-16T15:01:23.343Z]	<Balazs>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:01:23.344Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:01:23.344Z]	<Tzviya_Siegman>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:01:23.345Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:01:57.532Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:01:59.477Z]	<Balazs>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:02:10.991Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:02:12.347Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Chair: Kerri_Lemoie
[2021-08-16T15:02:13.670Z]	<Steve_Gance>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:03:04.413Z]	<Taylor>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:03:04.414Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie>  Topic: 2. IP Note
[2021-08-16T15:03:47.465Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-08-16T15:03:47.467Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie>  Topic: 3. Call Notes
[2021-08-16T15:04:27.437Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	http://irc.w3.org/?channels=ccg
[2021-08-16T15:04:36.186Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-08-16T15:04:36.187Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>  Topic: 4. Scribe Selection
[2021-08-16T15:05:02.134Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	scribe: Marty_Reed
[2021-08-16T15:05:15.771Z]	<Keith>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:05:16.771Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>  Topic: 5. Introductions & Reintroductions
[2021-08-16T15:05:18.483Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: anyone new to the call or want to re-intro?
[2021-08-16T15:05:52.908Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2021-08-16T15:06:30.733Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:06:31.784Z]	<Sheryl>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:06:31.784Z].     <Kerri_Lemoie>  Topic: 6 Update on Open Badges Alignment with VCs 
[2021-08-16T15:06:33.502Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Marty: Rough proposal for CLR to accommodate VC
[2021-08-16T15:06:58.826Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Marty_Reed: Not public yet
[2021-08-16T15:07:03.137Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:07:26.285Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: update on VCs and 2 IMS specs, OB and CLR
[2021-08-16T15:07:44.786Z]	<tzviya>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:07:57.920Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: proposal has been made to OB workgroup for OB 3.0 alignment to VC
[2021-08-16T15:07:59.619Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1jn9DjM-wlZT1B9moBP23qhiB2FZc_H8oqXIZN222a9U/edit#slide=id.p
[2021-08-16T15:08:34.457Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: updates made to proposal based on feedback from workgroup
[2021-08-16T15:10:05.322Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: pushback from CLR to align both specs with VC
[2021-08-16T15:10:50.791Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: 2 charters to align achievements and assertions with VC.
[2021-08-16T15:11:27.118Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: 2 new project groups will be formed there
[2021-08-16T15:11:41.591Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-16T15:12:01.513Z]	<Marty_Reed>	MR: CLR will be on similar timeframe.
[2021-08-16T15:12:44.382Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:12:58.375Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: Chairs for VC-EDU will reconvene in the coming week.
[2021-08-16T15:13:37.056Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:14:00.338Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-16T15:14:15.629Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marty_Reed
[2021-08-16T15:14:18.499Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-16T15:15:07.827Z]	<David_Ward>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:15:36.216Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: updates to proposal for OB 3.0, add to Design Goals, Mapping skills and Additional Terms for achievement, assertion and result.
[2021-08-16T15:16:52.222Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-16T15:17:01.056Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: update to proposal: hasCredential replaced with achievement and achievement properties
[2021-08-16T15:17:59.249Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: github has all difs
[2021-08-16T15:18:55.305Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: next steps for VC-EDU workgroup, Data Model recommendation, complex credentials, evidence, verifiable presentations
[2021-08-16T15:19:13.358Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	Kerri - I'd love to help, with that data model doc
[2021-08-16T15:20:12.594Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16Am1eBGR-tLlRwXwTvSphMqjYdPeD76cpX3uJX6Pc74/edit#gid=0
[2021-08-16T15:21:30.551Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	q+
[2021-08-16T15:21:34.316Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: spreadsheet aligns OB CLR
[2021-08-16T15:21:42.363Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Nate Otto
[2021-08-16T15:21:46.515Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-16T15:21:56.719Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky
[2021-08-16T15:22:32.856Z]	<Marty_Reed>	NO: need to transition how we work next and where the discussion should go next, align use cases
[2021-08-16T15:22:58.474Z]	<Marty_Reed>	NO: what partnerships are available, what DID methods, other layers of the text stack
[2021-08-16T15:23:02.569Z]	<Marty_Reed>	tech stack
[2021-08-16T15:23:24.811Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: need to make sure this group is not just about OB
[2021-08-16T15:23:43.549Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-16T15:23:45.316Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: particularly exchanges
[2021-08-16T15:23:52.508Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Keith
[2021-08-16T15:24:19.577Z]	<Marty_Reed>	Keith: Q-use of types?
[2021-08-16T15:24:42.236Z]	<Marty_Reed>	Keith: how does the conversation evolve around types?
[2021-08-16T15:24:51.491Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	q+ on types
[2021-08-16T15:24:54.760Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: need to do more research on types
[2021-08-16T15:25:31.516Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-16T15:25:43.739Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: OB types discussion difficult a few years ago
[2021-08-16T15:25:45.298Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky
[2021-08-16T15:26:23.258Z]	<Marty_Reed>	NO: this group is open where we can submit these ideas and other properties and use cases outside OB and CLR
[2021-08-16T15:26:25.586Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-16T15:26:55.813Z]	<Marty_Reed>	NO: history over time around types and did not get agreement
[2021-08-16T15:27:21.919Z]	<Marty_Reed>	NO: currently OB has good coverage in North American centric approach
[2021-08-16T15:27:24.415Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2021-08-16T15:27:51.090Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://credreg.net/ctdl/terms
[2021-08-16T15:28:01.191Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:28:02.473Z]	<Marty_Reed>	NO: credential engine has good accomodations for types
[2021-08-16T15:28:13.273Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-16T15:28:30.501Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marty_Reed
[2021-08-16T15:29:09.041Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Marty_Reed: in complex credentials looked at diploma supplement - have some non-north america-centric typein thatw ork group.
[2021-08-16T15:29:13.274Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-16T15:29:53.233Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: agenda for next Monday is open
[2021-08-16T15:30:25.118Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	present+
[2021-08-16T15:31:09.583Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	+1 to sending out a doodle etc
[2021-08-16T15:31:33.695Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-08-16T15:31:34.083Z]	<Marty_Reed>	MR: good time, but second NO on sending out a doodle
[2021-08-16T15:31:40.812Z]	<Marty_Reed>	KL: close meeting
