[2021-07-20T19:59:25.191Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-07-20T19:59:25.734Z]	<Justin_Richer>	present+
[2021-07-20T19:59:25.970Z]	<Mike_Varley>	present+
[2021-07-20T19:59:36.510Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-07-20T19:59:40.969Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-07-20T19:59:51.598Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-07-20T19:59:57.094Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:00:55.667Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:01:14.594Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:01:17.716Z]	<cel>	I could scribe
[2021-07-20T20:01:34.269Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:02:08.107Z]	<justin_r>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:03:19.774Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:03:49.357Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:03:51.636Z]	<cel>	scribe: cel
[2021-07-20T20:04:04.222Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:04:04.686Z]	<cel>	manu: Welcome everyone to the VC HTTP API call.
[2021-07-20T20:04:05.209Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:04:11.567Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jul/0151.html
[2021-07-20T20:04:26.872Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:04:48.939Z]	<Mahmoud>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:04:52.632Z]	<cel>	... Agenda Review, Intros, Use case updates, then mostly PR/issue processing, and the OAuth2 and RAR proposal, need to determine majority, super-majority, or back to consensus-based. Any updates/changes?
[2021-07-20T20:05:07.821Z]	<cel>	Mahmoud: quick note, I want to propose we use if switching to super-majority
[2021-07-20T20:05:10.982Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:05:17.898Z]	<cel>	manu: Let's do that after intros and use case update
[2021-07-20T20:05:30.078Z]	<cel>	topic: Intros and Reintros
[2021-07-20T20:05:34.764Z]	<cel>	... Anyone new to the call today?
[2021-07-20T20:05:47.213Z]	<cel>	... Anyone hasn't been on the call in a while and wants to re-introduce?
[2021-07-20T20:05:57.740Z]	<cel>	topic: Use case update
[2021-07-20T20:06:20.681Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit#heading=h.t03jb3hhyhc2
[2021-07-20T20:06:21.057Z]	<cel>	manu: Eric, and Juan, can you give an update? I did not schedule you guys for an update till next week
[2021-07-20T20:06:42.753Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:07:01.588Z]	<cel>	Eric_Schuh: posted link, new heading, rev to github. title sections for DID use case document. we've started to fill out a few of them. also transitioned the five use cases we've identified as well-formed, to be in this new format.
[2021-07-20T20:07:11.258Z]	<cel>	... Eventually this will get transferred to the markdown, etc. No big content changes
[2021-07-20T20:07:32.894Z]	<cel>	... But if anyone wants to take a stab at writing an abstract or introduction, I wouldn't complain. Otherwise next week may see a first draft from us of those
[2021-07-20T20:07:44.107Z]	<cel>	manu: Excellent, looks fantastic. Any other help needed?
[2021-07-20T20:08:01.829Z]	<cel>	Eric_Schuh: It's pretty rough... If you think of something, take a shot...
[2021-07-20T20:08:25.168Z]	<cel>	... We still have use case in the old format with the flow diagram... Adrian, I think we had a comment on one of yours... We're still accepting new use cases, and feel free to edit old ones
[2021-07-20T20:08:58.184Z]	<cel>	Juan: There's one we through together specifically with RAR in mind, as a sort of straw man for RAR, trying to imagine a situation that only works with some sort of authorization or policy enforcement
[2021-07-20T20:09:24.028Z]	<cel>	... If useful, take a look.. Issuance of a VC to a human holder... two different flows... you may start by looking at the flows and then look at the text
[2021-07-20T20:09:30.373Z]	<cel>	... This one not yet in the new format
[2021-07-20T20:09:57.551Z]	<cel>	... If folks have strong opinions about RAR, please check it out, see if some step missing, to help make it useful. I say that because it's timely... it would be good to have authorization details right before its PR'd in
[2021-07-20T20:10:10.123Z]	<Justin_Richer>	@juan: where is that text? I don't see it in the linked document
[2021-07-20T20:10:12.492Z]	<cel>	manu: Is next week a good week to put you guys on the agenda to go over what you have so far?
[2021-07-20T20:10:19.445Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit#
[2021-07-20T20:10:30.082Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	starts on page 17
[2021-07-20T20:10:39.330Z]	<Kaliya>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:10:40.701Z]	<cel>	Eric_Schuh: yeah, I think so. Our goal will essentially be to have a first draft of most of these sections. The requirements one may not be fully-formed of course. I think next week we should have enough
[2021-07-20T20:10:50.478Z]	<cel>	manu: I'll put you guys on for 10-15 mins with some QA
[2021-07-20T20:11:21.450Z]	<cel>	... I think we'll have a more relaxed meeting... pushing off some of the ... authorization discussions, to have a breather
[2021-07-20T20:11:32.421Z]	<manu>	Topic: Decision Making Method
[2021-07-20T20:12:19.707Z]	<cel>	manu: After quite a bit of discussion on authorization, we had decided to go into a majority vote. Nobody enjoyed that I don't think, but we were able to push forward on some things we had been unable to make progress on. Towards the end of the call, folks were like "let's not do this again, and if we do, it should be super-majority"
[2021-07-20T20:12:30.033Z]	<cel>	... May I suggest we move back to consensus decision making...
[2021-07-20T20:12:48.723Z]	<cel>	... when possible. Only if it fails for an extended period of time should we go to super-majority, and probably never do majority again.
[2021-07-20T20:12:54.985Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:13:07.007Z]	<cel>	... Let's see if folks are into moving back to consensus until ~2 months of not moving forward
[2021-07-20T20:13:24.104Z]	<cel>	Mahmoud: procedural question: can we re-run last week's proposals as super-majority?
[2021-07-20T20:13:38.786Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:13:49.172Z]	<cel>	... I know it would make last week a waste of time, but considering the amount of work put into the vc-http-api, don't think it makes sense to bind us to 51% proposals
[2021-07-20T20:13:49.881Z]	<manu>	ack Mahmoud
[2021-07-20T20:14:00.510Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Any decision derailable by a single individual is not consensus
[2021-07-20T20:14:11.267Z]	<cel>	... I would recommend the opposite of what Mahmoud was saying
[2021-07-20T20:14:26.918Z]	<cel>	... Since there were many proposals brought which were evaluated as a set, I don't see the value of rehashing
[2021-07-20T20:14:44.515Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:14:46.062Z]	<cel>	... So to be clear, I think we should run the same set of proposals, under super-majority rules as a group, and move on
[2021-07-20T20:14:59.295Z]	<cel>	manu: if folks have thoughts, please put yourselves on the queue
[2021-07-20T20:15:04.529Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:15:07.537Z]	<mprorock>	q-
[2021-07-20T20:15:08.706Z]	<cel>	... This is not a typical W3C thing
[2021-07-20T20:15:11.286Z]	<Justin_Richer>	@cel: I said as a "simple majority" not a "super majority"
[2021-07-20T20:15:35.247Z]	<Orie>	my q is to ask about previous resolutions related to OAS3.0
[2021-07-20T20:15:43.798Z]	<Orie>	and the proposals that passed in the last meeting
[2021-07-20T20:15:49.333Z]	<agropper>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:16:01.044Z]	<cel>	manu: I don't think we should re-run it... re-litigating is problematic, Justin has a point that it was a group, one of them we ran out of time, maybe for fairness sake we should give it a shot under the same position
[2021-07-20T20:16:06.443Z]	<manu>	ack justin
[2021-07-20T20:16:07.644Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-20T20:16:11.085Z]	<cel>	... I'm supportive of it even though I don't think I would like the outcome
[2021-07-20T20:17:07.026Z]	<manu>	q+ to note that we can represent anything in ReSpec -- and can do it.
[2021-07-20T20:17:10.797Z]	<cel>	Orie: previously we had resolved to use OpenAPI v3 (Swagger) to define these APIs. I was looking at their support for ... these credentials, and it does support OAuth2 client credentials. That solution we could implement. I'm less familiar with GNAP/RAR. Since the previous call... I wonder if anyone could comment on whether it's possible they are compatible
[2021-07-20T20:17:13.832Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-07-20T20:17:15.953Z]	<manu>	ack agropper
[2021-07-20T20:18:19.584Z]	<cel>	agropper: I think a lot of this might be a lot easier, if at some point, maybe not this week, we may make a resolution or decision... we only have one of three choices: 1 to reduce scope to not have authorization, 2 use GNAP with or without OAuth. 3rd option is to have group without me so you can have consensus
[2021-07-20T20:18:31.644Z]	<manu>	q+ to note we will not be asking anyone to leave the group -- that's anti-social.
[2021-07-20T20:18:41.346Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-20T20:18:42.414Z]	<cel>	... Over the past month, those are the 3 possibilities that have emerged. At some point we could decide which of those works best for the hard-working people getting things done here
[2021-07-20T20:19:10.227Z]	<cel>	manu: Thank you Adrian. 2 comments... Groups sometimes make decisions that are slightly contradictory. That's okay, we just need to find a way through it.
[2021-07-20T20:19:16.790Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:19:34.088Z]	<cel>	... Our decisions are not law... Yes we said we would write in OAS; if there are limitations, we can make up for it
[2021-07-20T20:19:46.504Z]	<cel>	... I hesitate to say we can't do it if it can't be done in OAS
[2021-07-20T20:19:46.569Z]	<Orie>	part of picking OAS was to make sure our decisions were implementable using existing standards....
[2021-07-20T20:20:13.722Z]	<Justin_Richer>	if you don't want to deal with opinions, get out of standards-making ðŸ˜…
[2021-07-20T20:20:16.522Z]	<Orie>	but I can live with RAR being defined in ReSpec, if its not possible to define it in OAS
[2021-07-20T20:20:19.696Z]	<cel>	... About those proposals... we do not ask people to leave groups, that is anti-social. Yes, it's a pain, but we're not here to exclude people.
[2021-07-20T20:20:55.074Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:21:00.570Z]	<cel>	... Let me try to propose something... I think Justin is making the case for fairness in expectations. We were majority last week. We have one final proposal, about RAR, we would run as majority...
[2021-07-20T20:21:23.500Z]	<Orie>	remember you can always object to anything when the draft tries to graduate from a community draft....
[2021-07-20T20:21:25.614Z]	<Justin_Richer>	@orie from a quick look, the OAuth support in OAS3 is all flow-based (grant type specific), which I believe is the wrong framing for this kind of API to begin with. So to support RAR types I would say use a simple extension for now. ReSpec would also be very simple to document this.
[2021-07-20T20:21:29.016Z]	<cel>	... It is still up to people to implement this stuff... Just because people make a resolution, it doesn't mean an implementer has to implement it. I'm merely putting this forward so that we can make some progress.
[2021-07-20T20:21:41.560Z]	<cel>	... Does anyone have strong objection such that they wouldn't want the group to operate that way?
[2021-07-20T20:21:47.718Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	present+
[2021-07-20T20:22:06.023Z]	<cel>	... Hearing no objections, we'll bring up that decision as majority, and then go back to consensus.
[2021-07-20T20:22:07.016Z]	<manu>	Topic: Pull Requests
[2021-07-20T20:22:10.096Z]	<manu>	https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jul/0150.html
[2021-07-20T20:23:07.294Z]	<cel>	... This group resolved to split the vc-http-api repo into a specification repo and a test suite repo. I've done the surgery to do that. There are two repos now, one with the spec with a clean history: preserved history - spec repo has no commits about test suite repo,
[2021-07-20T20:23:16.522Z]	<cel>	... and test suite repo doesn't have commits about the spec.
[2021-07-20T20:23:20.244Z]	<cel>	... Feedback, for/against?
[2021-07-20T20:23:30.910Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:23:36.029Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-20T20:23:37.728Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-07-20T20:23:50.849Z]	<cel>	Orie: Now that these are split up, could they vary, super-widely?
[2021-07-20T20:23:58.869Z]	<manu>	q+ to note "that's reality"
[2021-07-20T20:24:01.949Z]	<cel>	... Today we have some endpoints in spec not under test, or under test but not defined in the test.
[2021-07-20T20:24:21.424Z]	<cel>	... Now that we're separating them out... can we move them faster, independently, without being bound together to the same degree
[2021-07-20T20:25:08.674Z]	<cel>	manu: It's usually not a good idea, but ... ideally we try to have them converge, but maybe as a group we just understand that that might not happen for a while. It's okay, since we're in an experimental state.
[2021-07-20T20:25:27.852Z]	<cel>	... Any other concerns with operating in that state for the time being?
[2021-07-20T20:25:49.299Z]	<Orie>	q?
[2021-07-20T20:25:49.499Z]	<cel>	... Not hearing concerns, I'm reading it as they are separate. They're definitely not aligned today. The group is going to try to align them, that will be work.
[2021-07-20T20:25:54.514Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-20T20:26:17.037Z]	<cel>	Orie: related question for the spec. We have a couple other repositories that would like to link to the specification, ideally to sections of the specification.
[2021-07-20T20:26:30.147Z]	<cel>	... Typically in a spec there would be informative and normative sections, but this is a CCG draft.
[2021-07-20T20:26:39.244Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+ to discuss section stability in specs
[2021-07-20T20:26:45.356Z]	<cel>	... How legit is it to link to sections of this spec? e.g. in vaccination-vocab, universal-wallet-interop...
[2021-07-20T20:27:29.096Z]	<manu>	q+ to note ReSpec features to make this easier.
[2021-07-20T20:27:33.303Z]	<manu>	ack justin
[2021-07-20T20:27:52.666Z]	<Orie>	so link to anchors, not section numbers
[2021-07-20T20:28:04.886Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Section stability in standards document is, believe it or not, a hotly debated topic in some circles. Basically, if the target is semantic in nature - if the anchor can be, something like "issuer endpoint" - human readable semantic anchor, that's fine for this state. ANything section number specific will be inherently fragile, and anyone linking should know that. What I would not
[2021-07-20T20:28:06.889Z]	<cel>	recommend this group to do is to focus on section number stability this early in the definition process... not that that was suggested.
[2021-07-20T20:28:11.281Z]	<Orie>	<dfn> etc...
[2021-07-20T20:28:23.370Z]	<Orie>	thanks justin
[2021-07-20T20:28:27.054Z]	<cel>	... So yes, link to anchors - named anchors. Can still call out section numbers in the link, but know you may have to change that in the thing you are linking from.
[2021-07-20T20:29:19.817Z]	<cel>	manu: Respec makes it easier. Not a dfn... create an anchor. If using respec on the spec referring to this spec (both sides), it's easier. If on e.g. traceability api, there's a way to... make it nice and pretty and work well. We have the capability, but I wouldn't start doing it anytime soon. But if you need to do it, we can.
[2021-07-20T20:30:04.827Z]	<cel>	manu: Let me restate the splitting thing. The assumption is we will adopt the two split repos. It's acting on a resolution. We'll do it on the next call. Would anyone object to that?
[2021-07-20T20:30:49.261Z]	<cel>	... I'm not hearing any objections. The vc-http-api repo is going to stay the same, just get a new main branch history. The test suite needs a new repo. Mike, do you have any opinion on us having to go through the whole work item progress? It's an existing work item we're splitting.
[2021-07-20T20:30:57.719Z]	<cel>	mprorock: I say just move it, don't see a reason to slow it down.
[2021-07-20T20:31:04.660Z]	<cel>	manu: Okay, we'll do that, that's easy.
[2021-07-20T20:31:17.590Z]	<Orie>	q+ to comment on JWT
[2021-07-20T20:31:25.658Z]	<cel>	manu: JWT PR, voluntarily closed by Charles, thanks
[2021-07-20T20:31:43.186Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/198
[2021-07-20T20:31:48.124Z]	<cel>	Orie: I'm in favor of that new work item. I've spent some time thinking about what the vc-http-api would look like if it did support multiple formats. I look forward to contributing to that work item.
[2021-07-20T20:31:55.975Z]	<Markus_Sabadello>	Abstract data model!!
[2021-07-20T20:31:58.053Z]	<cel>	... I expect that super quickly we will be sad that they are separate work items
[2021-07-20T20:32:06.453Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie
[2021-07-20T20:32:10.317Z]	<cel>	... Think we need that work item, but wish could ... just be credentials
[2021-07-20T20:32:18.500Z]	<cel>	... And yes, the abstract data model is RDF in the VC Data Model
[2021-07-20T20:32:33.355Z]	<Orie>	q-
[2021-07-20T20:32:33.832Z]	<cel>	manu: Agreed, we're in for a world of pain... but good to recognize that item needs to be put forward.
[2021-07-20T20:32:40.405Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-20T20:32:44.148Z]	<cel>	... It may be a very helpful thing for the API long-term.
[2021-07-20T20:32:52.781Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/211
[2021-07-20T20:33:09.681Z]	<cel>	... Revocable indicator... my expectation is its still in progress...
[2021-07-20T20:33:21.451Z]	<cel>	Orie: right, he's out... Markus made a related issue?
[2021-07-20T20:33:32.862Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/204
[2021-07-20T20:33:40.607Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	he was just chatting!
[2021-07-20T20:33:49.357Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/213
[2021-07-20T20:33:50.808Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	he might be somewhere he can't go off mute (it's 10.30pm here)
[2021-07-20T20:34:09.788Z]	<cel>	... 213 was merged, that's good... we need to make sure that's in the new history
[2021-07-20T20:34:18.020Z]	<cel>	manu:
[2021-07-20T20:34:29.030Z]	<manu>	Topic: Issue Processing
[2021-07-20T20:34:40.512Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/34
[2021-07-20T20:34:51.905Z]	<cel>	... Those were all the PRs. Any questions/comments?
[2021-07-20T20:35:02.835Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:35:15.109Z]	<cel>	... 34: atomicity ... Dave and Troy going back and forth
[2021-07-20T20:35:24.186Z]	<mprorock>	"the before times"
[2021-07-20T20:35:48.908Z]	<cel>	Orie: In the early days of the VC HTTP API, there was an issue of constructing issues over time. This issue would appear to hearken back to that... like constructing an object incrementally, then sign it at some point and its issued.
[2021-07-20T20:36:19.602Z]	<cel>	... The current API assumes perfectly well-formed JSON on the client. You still have the ability to do that incremental building, just can't do it with this API - have to do it yourself, then pass it to the API, making sure the issuer URI is correct
[2021-07-20T20:36:48.319Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:36:50.753Z]	<manu>	ack orie
[2021-07-20T20:36:55.908Z]	<cel>	... This issue is about discussing the old world... like using templates... I would propose closing it, unless folks want to specifically resurrect that worldview
[2021-07-20T20:37:27.721Z]	<cel>	manu: Proposal that if you want to do incremental or template-based building, that's cool but do it on your own and then send it to the API. Is that an alternate summary of what you said, Orie?
[2021-07-20T20:37:37.735Z]	<cel>	Orie: Yes, I'm making a comment on the issue to that effect
[2021-07-20T20:38:25.109Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL: Regarding issue https;//github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/34, if a caller desires to build a VC incrementally of from a template, the caller can use another API to do so and then send the fully formed VC to the VC HTTP API for processing.
[2021-07-20T20:38:35.991Z]	<agropper>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:38:36.239Z]	<Mike_Varley>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:38:36.598Z]	<manu>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:38:39.970Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:38:41.345Z]	<Mahmoud>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:38:43.802Z]	<TallTed>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:38:45.316Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:38:54.491Z]	<cel>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:38:54.625Z]	<markus_sabadello>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:38:55.136Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:39:03.445Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:39:06.603Z]	<Orie>	+0 noting the requirement is now that you must understand JSON-LD.
[2021-07-20T20:39:29.274Z]	<Mike_Varley>	@orie - the constructor needs to know json-ld ;)
[2021-07-20T20:39:30.496Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:40:04.117Z]	<cel>	Orie: this API will only understand well-formed JSON-LD if you send it something to be issued. So you are ... placing outside scope...
[2021-07-20T20:40:14.197Z]	<TallTed>	manu -- I think we want to be working from this list (sort by least recently updated) -- https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc
[2021-07-20T20:40:22.616Z]	<manu>	RESOLVED: Regarding issue https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/34, if a caller desires to build a VC incrementally of from a template, the caller can use another API to do so and then send the fully formed VC to the VC HTTP API for processing.
[2021-07-20T20:40:22.919Z]	<cel>	... Maybe people think it's a thing the API should help; with this resolution it would certainly not be helping
[2021-07-20T20:40:33.328Z]	<mprorock>	+1 ted
[2021-07-20T20:40:44.800Z]	<cel>	manu: We can always change our mind...
[2021-07-20T20:41:36.422Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/36
[2021-07-20T20:42:03.183Z]	<cel>	manu: This was raised by you, Orie, saying must provide a reference id... would you provide an overview?
[2021-07-20T20:42:10.080Z]	<markus_sabadello>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:42:15.204Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-20T20:42:16.146Z]	<manu>	ack orie
[2021-07-20T20:42:25.778Z]	<cel>	Orie: I couldn't make sense of the issue... I suspect it's related to the mechanics of credential revocation lists... I defer to Markus
[2021-07-20T20:42:26.844Z]	<Orie>	ahh, markus is right
[2021-07-20T20:42:56.102Z]	<cel>	markus_sabadello: I think it's related more to the templating that we don't need anymore. In the original API we had reference id, so the API could automatically populate ... in credentials. So I think this is obsolete and can probably be closed.
[2021-07-20T20:43:09.863Z]	<cel>	manu: Would anyone object to closing Issue 36, based on what Markus just said?
[2021-07-20T20:43:39.556Z]	<cel>	... I'm adding that text and citing the resolution as the reason we are closing it.
[2021-07-20T20:43:50.861Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/38
[2021-07-20T20:43:53.574Z]	<Mike_Varley>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:44:14.387Z]	<cel>	... Issue 38 is about capturing requirements... Mike?
[2021-07-20T20:44:32.741Z]	<cel>	Mike_Varley: a little related to the ZKP credential format...
[2021-07-20T20:45:08.930Z]	<mprorock>	Doofenshmirtz is best github profile pic ever
[2021-07-20T20:45:09.527Z]	<manu>	ack mar
[2021-07-20T20:45:09.937Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:45:11.217Z]	<manu>	ack mik
[2021-07-20T20:45:12.526Z]	<cel>	... looking if there were requirements from API... in a back-and-forth conversation to generate that credential. Since there was discussion with Daniel (whom I'm considering a subject-matter expert), brought up other issues
[2021-07-20T20:45:14.481Z]	<Kaliya>	in the medium term ZKP-CL that Indy uses is being depricated for JSON-LD ZKP with BBS+ at least this is my understanding.
[2021-07-20T20:45:19.345Z]	<Orie>	the API supports BBS+ today, but not ZKP CL
[2021-07-20T20:45:32.904Z]	<Orie>	we should run a resolution to NOT support ZKP CL
[2021-07-20T20:45:39.916Z]	<cel>	... I think this issue by itself may spawn some other questions about do we need to commit to a particular schema for a VC before its issued (an issue Daniel raised)
[2021-07-20T20:45:40.465Z]	<Orie>	(a proposal)
[2021-07-20T20:45:42.027Z]	<Kaliya>	+1 Orie
[2021-07-20T20:45:51.629Z]	<cel>	... And does this API need to support CL-signature-style zero-knowledge proof?
[2021-07-20T20:46:12.608Z]	<cel>	... I'm going to go back to Daniel and ask for more guidance. If there are issues not related to ZKP, can split them out into other issues. Does that make sense / give context?
[2021-07-20T20:46:23.311Z]	<Kaliya>	Here is the paper about the different formats - https://www.lfph.io/2021/02/11/cci-verifiable-credentials-flavors-and-interoperability-paper/
[2021-07-20T20:46:30.120Z]	<Kaliya>	they are being depricated1
[2021-07-20T20:46:31.240Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	for CL-ZKP VCs, not for BBS+ VCs
[2021-07-20T20:46:32.358Z]	<cel>	manu: Just to be clear, you are taking an action to go back to Daniel to talk about it?
[2021-07-20T20:46:39.073Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-07-20T20:46:40.679Z]	<manu>	ack Tob
[2021-07-20T20:46:48.408Z]	<cel>	Mike_Varley: yes, about this... and maybe other issues
[2021-07-20T20:47:06.140Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie: we should run a resolution to NOT support ZKP CL
[2021-07-20T20:47:20.152Z]	<cel>	Tobias_Looker: ... In the context of CL, there is the notion of a credential definition, or a schema of a particular structure, a particular hosting of credentials... There is some complexity outside this API that would make it hard to issue CL credentials right now
[2021-07-20T20:47:27.124Z]	<mprorock>	not that we can't revisit
[2021-07-20T20:47:30.506Z]	<Mike_Varley>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:47:39.981Z]	<cel>	... Personally I think as a general convention for this group, when adding cryptographic schemes, we should be aiming to group them in common categories
[2021-07-20T20:47:58.441Z]	<cel>	... When elliptic curves arrived, didn't redefine concepts like key and signing, just the primitives changed under the hood.
[2021-07-20T20:48:10.035Z]	<cel>	... We've tried to do that with our work on BBS. Noting managing the complexity of that interface.
[2021-07-20T20:48:28.316Z]	<manu>	ack mik
[2021-07-20T20:48:32.338Z]	<cel>	... otherwise if we require pre-computed information before creating signature, I don't see how we'll be able to create enough standardization around this API.
[2021-07-20T20:48:41.067Z]	<Orie>	there are a number of cryptographic schemes that require "trusted setup"
[2021-07-20T20:48:54.355Z]	<cel>	Mike_Varley: To follow up, I agree with the points Tobias raised. I'm wondering, for folks more familiar,
[2021-07-20T20:48:57.903Z]	<Orie>	and non of them are defined in VC Data Model, better than ZKP CL....
[2021-07-20T20:49:07.296Z]	<cel>	... are there any other credentials using the ZKP type, or is it just reserved for the CL signature model?
[2021-07-20T20:49:15.329Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	https://blog.identity.foundation/building-interoperable-zkp-credential-systems/
[2021-07-20T20:49:21.060Z]	<cel>	manu: at the time the spec was put together, ZKP CL signature were the only thing considered.
[2021-07-20T20:49:39.828Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	Early days, but there are additional options coming some day :D
[2021-07-20T20:49:49.695Z]	<cel>	Mike_Varley: Ok. Don't want to run proposal today, but it may be the case that VC HTTP API, maybe that type of VC is not considered... But I will follow up with Daniel, and reply to the issue
[2021-07-20T20:50:05.851Z]	<Orie>	here is Microsoft's solution: https://github.com/decentralized-identity/snark-credentials
[2021-07-20T20:50:12.313Z]	<cel>	manu: To be clear, we knew there would be many types of proof mechanisms, ZKP and traditional, etc.
[2021-07-20T20:50:20.627Z]	<Orie>	(from Juan's linked post)
[2021-07-20T20:50:43.589Z]	<cel>	... VC Data Model said there would be many types of proofs. But were looking at it through the lens of CL signature, at least for ZKP. It looks kind of dated now. BBS+ wasn't a thing back then, and it is now: we need to take that into consideration.
[2021-07-20T20:50:54.000Z]	<cel>	... Next time is you will go back to Daniel and gather input.
[2021-07-20T20:51:23.185Z]	<cel>	... I don't know what you could write here, Tobias, but certainly BBS+ will be kind of the poster child for how we do this correctly in the VC HTTP API. So heads up, people may be picking your brain
[2021-07-20T20:51:25.301Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-07-20T20:51:32.512Z]	<cel>	Tobias: I'll try to document it, and add to that issue.
[2021-07-20T20:51:39.238Z]	<manu>	Topic: OAuth2 RAR Proposal
[2021-07-20T20:51:50.650Z]	<cel>	manu: At the end of the call. Let's pick up the OAuth2 RAR proposal. This is a majority vote...
[2021-07-20T20:52:16.084Z]	<cel>	... We're doing this in the name of fairness, because of the expectation that all of those proposals (from last week) were done this way.
[2021-07-20T20:52:31.026Z]	<manu>	PRE-PROPOSAL: The VC HTTP API MUST define access actions in terms of OAuth 2 RAR structures.
[2021-07-20T20:52:31.451Z]	<cel>	justin_r: A lot of what I've proposed is not what's been proposed and translated.
[2021-07-20T20:53:14.486Z]	<cel>	... Basically, as I've been saying, I am recommending and proposing that this working group treat the VC HTTP API as an API, what OAuth and GNAP would call a resource server, and define the means of access to both of those
[2021-07-20T20:53:28.995Z]	<cel>	... I've already stated how [...] I think both should be out of scope.
[2021-07-20T20:54:12.382Z]	<cel>	... What this proposal is saying, is every time there is something you can do in the API, you define a structure that says the things you can do. OAuth2 uses scopes, GNAP uses object-based language for describing in multiple dimensions - backported to OAuth2 as RAR.
[2021-07-20T20:54:36.744Z]	<cel>	... This proposal is saying that we, in this group, when we define a part of the VC HTTP API, we have to define the kind of access that you would need to ask for, for using that API.
[2021-07-20T20:54:55.047Z]	<cel>	... This is only for when you are using GNAP or OAuth2 to access the API. If you are not, if you are doing something else, you do something else.
[2021-07-20T20:55:47.130Z]	<cel>	... Saying that API specification must define access in terms of these structures is not a requirement to implement and use them, it's a requirement on the specification to describe how to do these actions. Very much in line with the OpenAPI... describing all the things you can do...
[2021-07-20T20:55:58.525Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL: The VC HTTP API MUST define access actions in terms of OAuth 2 RAR structures.
[2021-07-20T20:56:00.972Z]	<agropper>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:56:01.741Z]	<Justin_Richer>	+1
[2021-07-20T20:56:02.075Z]	<cel>	... so can be neatly described for an authorization protocol like OAuth2/GNAP
[2021-07-20T20:56:06.027Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	abstain
[2021-07-20T20:56:19.124Z]	<Mahmoud>	-1
[2021-07-20T20:56:20.360Z]	<mprorock>	-1
[2021-07-20T20:56:21.675Z]	<Orie>	-1
[2021-07-20T20:56:22.202Z]	<manu>	-0.5, I'd like to see this as a series of PRs before making a decision.
[2021-07-20T20:56:29.224Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	0
[2021-07-20T20:56:36.260Z]	<Mike_Varley>	0
[2021-07-20T20:56:45.874Z]	<cel>	+0
[2021-07-20T20:56:46.461Z]	<TallTed>	-0.3
[2021-07-20T20:56:53.785Z]	<markus_sabadello>	+0.5
[2021-07-20T20:57:04.973Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	0
[2021-07-20T20:57:24.624Z]	<Justin_Richer>	@manu asking for a PR is strange if the group hasn't agreed to do it, tbh
[2021-07-20T20:57:33.796Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	0
[2021-07-20T20:57:49.189Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-07-20T20:57:49.243Z]	<Orie>	it looks like this
[2021-07-20T20:57:49.809Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/swagger-api/swagger-samples/blob/b8f3ca3f3c6a5a125f2835c417ed52b96bc94f13/java/inflector-springboot-jersey/src/main/swagger/swagger.yaml#L55
[2021-07-20T20:57:55.403Z]	<Orie>	but with objects.
[2021-07-20T20:58:09.481Z]	<cel>	manu: It might not be clear to this group what it looks like
[2021-07-20T20:58:32.845Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Orie is right, it looks like that (link shared by Orie) but with objects.
[2021-07-20T20:58:40.748Z]	<Orie>	I can do the OAuth scopes
[2021-07-20T20:58:42.620Z]	<Orie>	side
[2021-07-20T20:58:50.558Z]	<cel>	... I would work with it... If I can partner with someone who is willing to enumerate the actions possible in the APIs
[2021-07-20T20:59:08.008Z]	<Orie>	components:
  securitySchemes:
    OAuth2:
      type: oauth2
      flows:
        authorizationCode:
          authorizationUrl: https://example.com/oauth/authorize
          tokenUrl: https://example.com/oauth/token
          scopes:
            'create:credentials': Grants permission to create credentials
            'derive:credentials': Grants permission to derive credentials
            'create:presentations': Grants permission to create presentations
            'verify:presentations': Grants permission to verify presentations
            'exchange:presentations': Grants permission to exchange presentations
[2021-07-20T20:59:19.272Z]	<cel>	... I really think this is a much simpler thing than people are reacting to
[2021-07-20T20:59:25.095Z]	<Orie>	lol
[2021-07-20T20:59:25.659Z]	<cel>	manu: I don't think we have agreement on what the actions are.
[2021-07-20T20:59:30.370Z]	<Orie>	`:p`
[2021-07-20T20:59:34.095Z]	<cel>	justin_r: Agreeing to do this will help the group define what those actions are.
[2021-07-20T20:59:51.164Z]	<cel>	justin_r: I'm not harping on this because I'm invested in some piece of tech needing this group's permission
[2021-07-20T20:59:58.386Z]	<cel>	... I think it's better for this group to do these things
[2021-07-20T21:00:26.241Z]	<Justin_Richer>	@orie json and emoticons are not compatible :P
[2021-07-20T21:00:33.313Z]	<cel>	manu: Not passing, but not a hard "not work on it", confusion about the actions... need to talk about it, let's take it to the mailing list.
[2021-07-20T21:00:51.160Z]	<cel>	... You're right, Justin, it's a conversation we have to have... Maybe folks will be more comfortable...
[2021-07-20T21:01:03.503Z]	<cel>	... It's inescapeable we'll have to talk about what actions the API performs
[2021-07-20T21:01:04.959Z]	<Orie>	justin here you go: https://gist.github.com/OR13/5c01814fb1cf929c4d0cc15ecca6a73d
[2021-07-20T21:01:12.454Z]	<Orie>	:)
[2021-07-20T21:01:17.526Z]	<cel>	... Meeting next week will be a bit the same, use cases, issue/PR processing until done
