Thanks to Brian Richter for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Verifiable Credentials HTTP API telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-07-27-vchttpapi 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Credentials HTTP API Telecon Minutes for 2021-07-27

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jul/0270.html
Topics:
  1. Introductions
  2. Pull Requests
  3. Issue Processing
Resolutions:
  1. The VC HTTP API Work Item group will not define a "phone 
    home" mechanism at present as it may create a privacy danger when 
    a verifier contacts an issuer directly about a particular 
    credential. Vendors are free to implement such a system, but we 
    are not going to define it in the standard at present.
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny
Scribe:
  Brian Richter
Present:
  Ted Thibodeau, Mike Prorock, Eric Schuh, Manu Sporny, Justin 
  Richer, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Joe Andrieu, David Chadwick, Brent 
  Zundel, Adrian Gropper, Dmitri Z, Brian Richter, Orie Steele, 
  Juan Caballero, Kaliya Young, Tobias Looker, Phil L (P1)
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-07-27/audio.ogg

Brian Richter is scribing.
Manu Sporny:  Agenda is PR processing and issue processing

Topic: Introductions

Brian Richter:  Hi Brian Richter, Have a company Aviary 
  Technologies Inc, we recently participated in Canadian UCVCDD 
  Challenge... building with this technology, right now just 
  bouncing around and get into multiple groups trying to see what's 
  going on. [scribe assist by Manu Sporny]

Topic: Pull Requests

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/commits/main
Manu Sporny:  Announcements.. split test suite from the spec. new 
  history is a part of the main branch
Manu Sporny: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api-test-suite/commits/main
Manu Sporny:  Other thing that's been done is the test suite has 
  been moved to the ccg. confirmed with 2 chairs that what we did 
  is fine
Manu Sporny: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/commit/cffd942b53ce92c9fb3d86ced62e6cb70e4f276a
Manu Sporny:  Both histories should be clean and up to date
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  Ci/cd is removed?
<orie> unless you build the spec or lint the spc
<orie> you don't need CI/CD
Manu Sporny:  Ci/cd for this spec - doesn't seem we need as 
  latest github page publishes everything. don't need a process to 
  generate. for the test suite don't know if i broke anything it's 
  likely I did
<orie> we do
Orie Steele:  Current test suite allows for new report anytime by 
  pressing a button. we will want that if it's been broken
<manu> Agree, we don't want to lose that functionality... I 
  almost certainly broke that...
Orie Steele:  This allows for nightly, on demand, on PRs..
Orie Steele:  One thing test suite doesn't have is any security 
  so we need that
Mike Prorock:  Orie said everything i had
Manu Sporny:  I most certainly broke that
Mahmoud Alkhraishi:  For the spec it doesn't lint and I believe 
  we will need that. I would like to see it brought back
<mprorock> linting and testing wherever possible good
<orie> yes, OAS file linting
<orie> most important
Manu Sporny:  2 Types of linting.. respec does sweep for a few 
  things. there's also the file linting we should be doing so we 
  should do both of those things
<orie> <3 PR previews! TallTed!
Manu Sporny:  I also added PR previews across the ccg. As pointed 
  out we don't get images as a part of that but it's useful to see 
  what the PR looks like in the spec
<tallted> *cheers*
Manu Sporny:  Anyone please PR to add ci/cd
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/220
<manu> Adds the diagrams that we agreed to add in 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-05-27-vchttpapi/#resolution-1 
  .
Manu Sporny:  PR 220.. adding the architecture diagrams we have 
  as decided in a previous resolution

Topic: Issue Processing

Manu Sporny:  That's the only PR we have other than revocable 
  which Nis will get to. That's it for PRs.. next up is issue 
  processing
<orie> /me sharpens issue processing knife
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/38
Manu Sporny:  In order from least recently updated. Issue 38 is 
  up first
<mahmoud> its in the issue comments towards the end @manu
Manu Sporny:  I got an update from Mike Varley who said he talked 
  to Daniel Hardman and agrees we can close this issue and we may 
  want to get more specific about ZKP things.. specifically BBS+ 
  and how that impacts API
<orie> we already have an endpoint, "deriveCredential" that only 
  applies to BBS+... I agree to opening specific issues
Manu Sporny:  Mike thinks we should open an issue to handle bad 
  issuers.. I don't quite understand the issue
<by_caballero> sorry?
Manu Sporny:  Does anyone know what the bad issuer use case is?
<orie>	bad issuer => Game Over
<by_caballero> 38?
<orie> in all cases likely
<by_caballero> does he mean issuer collusion?
Manu Sporny:  Action.. mike varley to open issue re: bad issuer 
  use case. closing issue with no objections
<mprorock> possibly, or issuing with weak pairings
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/39
Manu Sporny:  Next issue is #39.. concern on external APIs for 
  status checks
Manu Sporny:  David do you know what's going on with this issue? 
  daniel is concerned we're creating phone home issue.. thoughts?
Manu Sporny:  Anyone else have thoughts on exposing a status 
  check? this is a phone home API what's being proposed. would have 
  a field in a VC that would call to get an active status
David Chadwick:  There should be no possibility of calling home. 
  if we have this phone home then the issuer knows who the verifier 
  is
Manu Sporny:  I agree, I would be a -1 to this issue
<orie> maybe tracking is a feature of the web?
<orie> /s :trolling: the W3C / adtech space
Mike Prorock:  I think there is valid use cases.. where VCs are 
  behind the scene but I think this would need big red flags in the 
  spec.
<manu> Agree... people can always define it elsewhere.
Manu Sporny:  Anyone else have a thought? specification won't 
  have phone home APIs
David Chadwick:  Agreed.. that should be out the pure vc model. 
  there shouldn't be a standard way of doing it
Joe Andrieu:  As framed it would be a mistake to give guidance on 
  something most of us don't want
<manu> oooh, I do like that.
<by_caballero> you mean like some kind of status list?
Joe Andrieu:  Want to float a crazy idea, is there an opportunity 
  to present some positive guidance to show how this should be done
<by_caballero> hehe
Mike Prorock:  Revocation list is what immediately comes to mind.
<by_caballero> this old chestnut?
Juan Caballero: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-status-list-2021/
<by_caballero> :D
Joe Andrieu:  Ya that's right.. we have some approaches. api 
  should give guidance on how to do revocation
David Chadwick:  Holder goes to the RP and the RP sends its 
  presentation exchange so it knows what the holder is going to get 
  and it can then ping the verifiers
Adrian Gropper:  Not sure I understand completely but I do see it 
  as link to authz aspect.. fundamentally i'd like to put as much 
  as possible to the authz server and as little in the issuer api 
  as possible.
<orie> my favorite place to send National Security Letters is to 
  Authorization Server Providers :)
<mprorock> what are those orie?
Manu Sporny:  In general we do not want phone home APIs. might be 
  some valid use cases but don't wanna spend time right now. would 
  like to provide alternatives
Manu Sporny:  Wondering if the proposal is: at this time we are 
  not going to define API mechanisms that phone home directly from 
  verifier to issuer
Manu Sporny:  We will try to document better ways that don't 
  violate privacy
<justin_richer> it's only a signal if industry would listen to it
<justin_richer> (which they will not)
Manu Sporny:  Good signal to industry not defining phone home 
  APIs
<mprorock> i mean VC implies not phoning home as an advantage
<orie> wait mDL phones home?
<by_caballero> well
Manu Sporny:  Relevant right now as mDL has phone home stuff that 
  DHS is asking about
<joe_andrieu> we should do a proposal to have it on record
<mprorock> current mDL phones home
<orie> so we can't support it unless we agree to support phone 
  home?
<by_caballero> an online door
David Chadwick:  Mdl has a back door (optional) that is part of 
  the model that user can contact RP saying i have drivers licence 
  and you can go to the issuer to find it
David Chadwick:  Mdl people don't like it and are moving to VCs 
  in version 2 so that they can stop that backdoor
<orie> I am trolling, maybe it would be helpful to highlight this 
  problem.
Mike Prorock: +1 David - VC extensions will help remove the phone 
  home
Manu Sporny: PRE-PROPOSAL: The VC HTTP API Work Item group will 
  not define a "phone home" mechanism at present as it creates a 
  privacy danger when a verifier contacts an issuer directly.
Mike Prorock: +1
<by_caballero> sgtm
Juan Caballero: +1
<by_caballero> sorry
<joe_andrieu> add "about a particular credential or subject"
<orie> I am in favor of repetition when it comes to privacy / 
  security
Manu Sporny:  Would anyone object to that being run? not running 
  it yet
Brent Zundel:  Only thing i would add is it "may" create privacy 
  issue
Juan Caballero: Brent +1
Manu Sporny: PRE-PROPOSAL: The VC HTTP API Work Item group will 
  not define a "phone home" mechanism at present as it may create a 
  privacy danger when a verifier contacts an issuer directly.
Joe Andrieu:  Appending about a particular credential
Manu Sporny: PRE-PROPOSAL: The VC HTTP API Work Item group will 
  not define a "phone home" mechanism at present as it may create a 
  privacy danger when a verifier contacts an issuer directly about 
  a particular credential.
<kaliya> Here is the DHS RFI re: mDL - it references many time 
  that the DHS agencies will ping drivers licecne databasess and 
  asks about the privacy implcations of this - 
  https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/04/19/2021-07957/minimum-standards-for-drivers-licenses-and-identification-cards-acceptable-by-federal-agencies-for
Mike Prorock:  One use case around phone home is in cases of 
  firearms background checks and there may need to be a manual sign 
  off.. something to be aware of
<kaliya> its due date was extended - 
  https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/06/16/2021-12616/public-meeting-and-extension-of-comment-period-on-request-for-information-minimum-standards-for
Manu Sporny: PRE-PROPOSAL: The VC HTTP API Work Item group will 
  not define a "phone home" mechanism at present as it may create a 
  privacy danger when a verifier contacts an issuer directly about 
  a particular credential. Vendors are free to implement such a 
  system, but we are not going to define it in the standard at 
  present.
<by_caballero> at present

PROPOSAL:  The VC HTTP API Work Item group will not define a 
  "phone home" mechanism at present as it may create a privacy 
  danger when a verifier contacts an issuer directly about a 
  particular credential. Vendors are free to implement such a 
  system, but we are not going to define it in the standard at 
  present.

<by_caballero> maybe when we have some gun-purchase/mental-health 
  use cases we can reconsider :D
Manu Sporny: +1
Mike Prorock: +1
Joe Andrieu: +1
Orie Steele: +1
Kaliya Young: +1
Manu Sporny:  Running proposal
Juan Caballero: +1
Brian Richter: +1
Brent Zundel: +1
Ted Thibodeau: +1
Justin Richer: +0 It's pointless signaling
David Chadwick: +1
<phil_l_(p1)> 1
Mahmoud Alkhraishi: +1
Adrian Gropper: -0 This issue should stay open until we 
  understand the authorization protocols
<joe_andrieu> /me @justin it is signalling to our future selves.
<by_caballero> well if it's virtue signaling i'm changing my vote 
  to +2 :D

RESOLUTION: The VC HTTP API Work Item group will not define a 
  "phone home" mechanism at present as it may create a privacy 
  danger when a verifier contacts an issuer directly about a 
  particular credential. Vendors are free to implement such a 
  system, but we are not going to define it in the standard at 
  present.

Manu Sporny:  Adrian if you'd like to raise this issue in context 
  of authz thats appropriate
Manu Sporny:  That issue is closed.. next issue is #40
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/40
Manu Sporny:  Raised by markus discussed by Kim.. title is: 
  remove public facing API calls. this is meant to be an internal 
  API calls this shouldn't have any operations public and those 
  should be removed. remove credential status and refresh
<mprorock> all apis are public, even internal ones from my 
  opinion, adding auth is another path
<orie>	> all apis are public, even internal ones from my opinion, 
  adding auth is another path
Orie Steele: +1
Orie Steele:  This is stale and should be closed
<by_caballero> close it
Mike Prorock: +1 Close as stale
Joe Andrieu: +1 Stale
<adrian_gropper> again, this is an authorization issue
<joe_andrieu> I was going to say "refresh" is necessarily public
Justin Richer:  The idea of a public API. you need to 
  differentiate using some system. we just had a long discussion 
  about controlling APIs.. this is part and parcel with the authz 
  discussion
Adrian Gropper: +1 Justin
Justin Richer:  If closing this as stale the group is admitting 
  that the group is admitting they need to discuss this
Joe Andrieu:  Confused as refresh is public
<orie> all APIs should be secured
Joe Andrieu:  Whoever is satisfying the refresh it is being 
  called by the holder and i dont think the holder is calling it.. 
  we don't have a good mental model for holders
<orie> in a world where, we spent more time following security 
  best practices and less time imagine a future without OAuth...
Adrian Gropper: +1 To Ted's "all external as a ZTA issue
TallTallTed: there can not be any thing as an internal API in a 
  space that involves security and crypto. everything needs to be 
  treated as external and the authorized agent needs to be known
David Chadwick: +1 TallTed
Orie Steele: +1 TallTed
Mike Prorock: +1 TallTed
TallTallTed: it might be stale but this isn't grounds for 
  closing.. maybe a new issue but theres still discussion here
Joe Andrieu:  Theres confusion here of internal/external vs 
  internal/public. is the api intended to be used by the public?
Manu Sporny:  Hearing close the issue as it doesn't cut to the 
  point. open new issues for various points of debate
Manu Sporny:  Hearing "there should be authz around these 
  endpoints"
Manu Sporny:  Hearing "don't presume internal v external.. not a 
  good way to think about endpoints"
<tallted> I would generally keep this and other bluntly directed 
  issues open until the better-pointed issue(s) is/are created
<orie> the issue discusses endpoints that don't exist.... in the 
  current spec.... not closing it, invites confusion. maybe we 
  should read the latest api definitions first next time.
TallTallTed: should leave open with a note to create a new issue
Joe Andrieu: +1 To TallTed's suggestion
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie - API definitions in issue are no longer 
  relevant
Manu Sporny: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/40#issuecomment-887824499
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/42
Manu Sporny:  Next issue up is #42.. jwt encoding of VCs. orie 
  opened up and there is work item now
Orie Steele:  Would like to close and cross link to new work 
  item. doing that
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/43
Manu Sporny:  Next issue is #43. design discussion is wondering 
  whether we should be using service APIs vs RESTful APIs
Manu Sporny:  James said maybe REST isn't the right approach. 
  maybe POST or creating isn't the right level of abstraction
Orie Steele:  We don't support any form of reading credentials.. 
  not list no get by id. none of that is supported
Manu Sporny:  Another note previous resolution: API style guide 
  we are going to use is controller style w/ json schema. any 
  deviations will be discussed by group
<orie> please read the current API definitions
<orie> before the next call.
Adrian Gropper:  Curious about comment: API does not support GET? 
  am i to assume this api only supports push
Manu Sporny:  API is to issue VCs. as an authority you call the 
  API to issue a VC and then you hand it off in external process. 
  there is not get credential
<orie> the current api spec does not render correctly either
Ted Thibodeau: 
  https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/35#issuecomment-866314656 
  says "RESOLVED: In general, the VC HTTP API style will conform to 
  restfulapi.net guidelines ..."   Seems to answer issue#43 
  directly
Orie Steele: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-http-api/issuer.html
Orie Steele: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-http-api/holder.html
Orie Steele: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-http-api/verifier.html
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie - current specs are not
Mike Prorock: +1 Ted
<orie> thank you TallTed
TallTallTed: resolution linked answers #43 directly
Orie Steele:  Current API isn't included in respec but I pasted 
  above. there is issuer/holder/verifier these are the current 
  APIs. encourage people to take a look at these. these are the 
  primary work that has been done
Orie Steele:  Please take a look and you'll see there isn't a lot 
  there. no querying
<by_caballero> VeeeHAPPY
<tallted> Are those linked from VC-HTTP-API repo README(s)?
<orie> TallTed, no, folks keep moving things, breaking links, and 
  not updating the readme.
Mike Prorock:  This might be a history thing.. when i first came 
  in was thinking we would be doing all of the restful things.. 
  feels like a gap
<orie> PRs welcome.
<tallted> *sighs*  I spend more time on editing README(s)....
<orie> example
Orie Steele: 
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/#issuer
<by_caballero> "please update the readme" is the new "please 
  address merge conflicts"
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie
Manu Sporny:  At the top of the hour. I'm trying to get the OAS 
  files to render native in respec. trying to get it officially 
  integrated. might need help from orie
<mprorock> also useful to bundle all api endpoints into a single 
  spec file
