[2021-07-27T20:00:49.327Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:00:49.328Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:00:49.328Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:00:49.329Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:00:49.329Z]	<Justin_Richer>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:00:49.689Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:01:10.382Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:01:21.156Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:01:33.492Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:01:53.043Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:02:44.994Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:02:46.629Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:04:13.056Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:04:47.454Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	scribe: Brian_Richter
[2021-07-27T20:05:30.749Z]	<manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jul/0270.html
[2021-07-27T20:05:32.696Z]	<manu>	Chair: Manu
[2021-07-27T20:05:45.037Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:05:50.839Z]	<justin_r>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:05:57.906Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: agenda is PR processing and issue processing
[2021-07-27T20:07:55.995Z]	<manu>	Topic: Introductions
[2021-07-27T20:07:55.995Z]	<manu>	Brian_Richter: Hi Brian Richter, Have a company Aviary Technologies Inc, we recently participated in Canadian UCVCDD Challenge... building with this technology, right now just bouncing around and get into multiple groups trying to see what's going on.
[2021-07-27T20:08:11.066Z]	<manu>	Topic: Pull Requests
[2021-07-27T20:08:32.052Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/commits/main
[2021-07-27T20:08:32.449Z]	<by_caballero>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:08:46.406Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: announcements.. split test suite from the spec. new history is a part of the main branch
[2021-07-27T20:08:50.140Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api-test-suite/commits/main
[2021-07-27T20:09:13.438Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: other thing that's been done is the test suite has been moved to the ccg. confirmed with 2 chairs that what we did is fine
[2021-07-27T20:09:34.608Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/commit/cffd942b53ce92c9fb3d86ced62e6cb70e4f276a
[2021-07-27T20:09:53.537Z]	<Mahmoud>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:09:53.674Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: both histories should be clean and up to date
[2021-07-27T20:10:12.134Z]	<Brian_Richter>	mahmoud: ci/cd is removed?
[2021-07-27T20:10:39.656Z]	<Orie>	unless you build the spec or lint the spc
[2021-07-27T20:10:44.421Z]	<Orie>	you don't need CI/CD
[2021-07-27T20:10:59.609Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: ci/cd for this spec - doesn't seem we need as latest github page publishes everything. don't need a process to generate. for the test suite don't know if i broke anything it's likely I did
[2021-07-27T20:11:05.956Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:11:12.477Z]	<Mahmoud>	ack mahmoud
[2021-07-27T20:11:13.061Z]	<Orie>	we do
[2021-07-27T20:11:29.962Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:11:36.456Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-07-27T20:11:59.079Z]	<Brian_Richter>	orie: current test suite allows for new report anytime by pressing a button. we will want that if it's been broken
[2021-07-27T20:12:17.417Z]	<manu>	Agree, we don't want to lose that functionality... I almost certainly broke that...
[2021-07-27T20:12:24.550Z]	<Brian_Richter>	orie: this allows for nightly, on demand, on PRs..
[2021-07-27T20:12:47.627Z]	<Brian_Richter>	orie: one thing test suite doesn't have is any security so we need that
[2021-07-27T20:13:00.568Z]	<manu>	q+ I broke it
[2021-07-27T20:13:03.597Z]	<mprorock>	q-
[2021-07-27T20:13:07.072Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-27T20:13:09.371Z]	<Mahmoud>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:13:14.016Z]	<Brian_Richter>	mprorock: orie said everything i had
[2021-07-27T20:13:27.277Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: I most certainly broke that
[2021-07-27T20:13:48.612Z]	<manu>	q+ to note "linting"
[2021-07-27T20:13:53.628Z]	<manu>	ack Mahmoud
[2021-07-27T20:14:00.814Z]	<Brian_Richter>	mahmoud: for the spec it doesn't lint and I believe we will need that. I would like to see it brought back
[2021-07-27T20:14:01.552Z]	<mprorock>	linting and testing wherever possible good
[2021-07-27T20:14:34.480Z]	<Orie>	yes, OAS file linting
[2021-07-27T20:14:37.459Z]	<Orie>	most important
[2021-07-27T20:14:40.320Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: 2 types of linting.. respec does sweep for a few things. there's also the file linting we should be doing so we should do both of those things
[2021-07-27T20:14:57.644Z]	<Orie>	<3 PR previews! TallTed!
[2021-07-27T20:15:17.184Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: I also added PR previews across the ccg. As pointed out we don't get images as a part of that but it's useful to see what the PR looks like in the spec
[2021-07-27T20:15:18.014Z]	<TallTed>	*cheers*
[2021-07-27T20:15:41.048Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: anyone please PR to add ci/cd
[2021-07-27T20:15:42.046Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/220
[2021-07-27T20:15:53.055Z]	<manu>	Adds the diagrams that we agreed to add in https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-05-27-vchttpapi/#resolution-1 .
[2021-07-27T20:16:29.092Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: PR 220.. adding the architecture diagrams we have as decided in a previous resolution
[2021-07-27T20:17:10.647Z]	<manu>	Topic: Issue Processing
[2021-07-27T20:17:11.115Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: that's the only PR we have other than revocable which Nis will get to. That's it for PRs.. next up is issue processing
[2021-07-27T20:17:20.598Z]	<Orie>	/me sharpens issue processing knife
[2021-07-27T20:17:29.667Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/38
[2021-07-27T20:17:42.287Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: in order from least recently updated. Issue 38 is up first
[2021-07-27T20:18:27.237Z]	<Mahmoud>	its in the issue comments towards the end @manu
[2021-07-27T20:18:32.088Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: I got an update from Mike Varley who said he talked to Daniel Hardman and agrees we can close this issue and we may want to get more specific about ZKP things.. specifically BBS+ and how that impacts API
[2021-07-27T20:19:16.038Z]	<Kaliya>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:19:32.133Z]	<Orie>	we already have an endpoint, "deriveCredential" that only applies to BBS+... I agree to opening specific issues
[2021-07-27T20:20:11.816Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: mike thinks we should open an issue to handle bad issuers.. I don't quite understand the issue
[2021-07-27T20:20:49.805Z]	<by_caballero>	sorry?
[2021-07-27T20:20:53.101Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: does anyone know what the bad issuer use case is?
[2021-07-27T20:20:54.960Z]	<Orie>	Bad Issuer => Game Over
[2021-07-27T20:20:58.240Z]	<by_caballero>	38?
[2021-07-27T20:20:59.034Z]	<Orie>	in all cases likely
[2021-07-27T20:21:27.203Z]	<by_caballero>	does he mean issuer collusion?
[2021-07-27T20:21:51.127Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: action.. mike varley to open issue re: bad issuer use case. closing issue with no objections
[2021-07-27T20:21:55.243Z]	<mprorock>	possibly, or issuing with weak pairings
[2021-07-27T20:22:19.526Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/39
[2021-07-27T20:22:25.679Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: next issue is #39.. concern on external APIs for status checks
[2021-07-27T20:23:01.755Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: david do you know what's going on with this issue? daniel is concerned we're creating phone home issue.. thoughts?
[2021-07-27T20:23:55.792Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: anyone else have thoughts on exposing a status check? this is a phone home API what's being proposed. would have a field in a VC that would call to get an active status
[2021-07-27T20:24:28.392Z]	<manu>	q+ to agree with David
[2021-07-27T20:24:31.774Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:24:33.392Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-27T20:24:34.935Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-27T20:24:35.937Z]	<Brian_Richter>	chadwick: there should be no possibility of calling home. if we have this phone home then the issuer knows who the verifier is
[2021-07-27T20:24:53.276Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: I agree, I would be a -1 to this issue
[2021-07-27T20:25:21.764Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-27T20:25:23.070Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-27T20:25:24.614Z]	<Orie>	maybe tracking is a feature of the web?
[2021-07-27T20:25:26.217Z]	<manu>	ack mrporock
[2021-07-27T20:25:28.666Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-07-27T20:25:30.976Z]	<manu>	ack mpro
[2021-07-27T20:25:43.614Z]	<Orie>	/s :trolling: the W3C / adtech space
[2021-07-27T20:25:56.772Z]	<Brian_Richter>	mprorock: i think there is valid use cases.. where VCs are behind the scene but I think this would need big red flags in the spec.
[2021-07-27T20:25:58.707Z]	<manu>	Agree... people can always define it elsewhere.
[2021-07-27T20:26:14.703Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:26:34.691Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: anyone else have a thought? specification won't have phone home APIs
[2021-07-27T20:26:57.743Z]	<manu>	ack joe
[2021-07-27T20:26:59.847Z]	<Brian_Richter>	chadwick: agreed.. that should be out the pure vc model. there shouldn't be a standard way of doing it
[2021-07-27T20:27:00.053Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-07-27T20:27:15.476Z]	<Brian_Richter>	Joe_Andrieu: as framed it would be a mistake to give guidance on something most of us don't want
[2021-07-27T20:27:30.495Z]	<manu>	oooh, I do like that.
[2021-07-27T20:27:39.577Z]	<by_caballero>	you mean like some kind of status list?
[2021-07-27T20:27:39.955Z]	<Brian_Richter>	Joe_Andrieu: want to float a crazy idea, is there an opportunity to present some positive guidance to show how this should be done
[2021-07-27T20:27:40.692Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:27:40.809Z]	<by_caballero>	hehe
[2021-07-27T20:27:48.563Z]	<manu>	ack mpro
[2021-07-27T20:28:07.820Z]	<Brian_Richter>	mprorock: revocation list is what immediately comes to mind.
[2021-07-27T20:28:08.891Z]	<DavidC>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:28:18.923Z]	<by_caballero>	this old chestnut?
[2021-07-27T20:28:19.603Z]	<by_caballero>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-status-list-2021/
[2021-07-27T20:28:26.181Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:28:26.545Z]	<by_caballero>	:D
[2021-07-27T20:28:39.747Z]	<Brian_Richter>	Joe_Andrieu: ya that's right.. we have some approaches. api should give guidance on how to do revocation
[2021-07-27T20:28:46.793Z]	<manu>	ack DavidC
[2021-07-27T20:28:49.537Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:29:19.039Z]	<Brian_Richter>	chadwick: holder goes to the RP and the RP sends its presentation exchange so it knows what the holder is going to get and it can then ping the verifiers
[2021-07-27T20:30:01.077Z]	<manu>	q+ to note what I'm hearing is -- we have some good ideas, we don't want phone home APIs -- and we should help people see alternatives.
[2021-07-27T20:30:21.544Z]	<Brian_Richter>	agropper: not sure I understand completely but I do see it as link to authz aspect.. fundamentally i'd like to put as much as possible to the authz server and as little in the issuer api as possible.
[2021-07-27T20:30:26.168Z]	<manu>	ack adrian
[2021-07-27T20:30:26.553Z]	<Orie>	my favorite place to send National Security Letters is to Authorization Server Providers :)
[2021-07-27T20:31:01.147Z]	<mprorock>	what are those orie?
[2021-07-27T20:31:04.632Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: in general we do not want phone home APIs. might be some valid use cases but don't wanna spend time right now. would like to provide alternatives
[2021-07-27T20:31:36.200Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: wondering if the proposal is: at this time we are not going to define API mechanisms that phone home directly from verifier to issuer
[2021-07-27T20:31:54.384Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: we will try to document better ways that don't violate privacy
[2021-07-27T20:32:13.520Z]	<Justin_Richer>	it's only a signal if industry would listen to it
[2021-07-27T20:32:16.977Z]	<Justin_Richer>	(which they will not)
[2021-07-27T20:32:19.509Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: good signal to industry not defining phone home APIs
[2021-07-27T20:32:25.193Z]	<mprorock>	i mean VC implies not phoning home as an advantage
[2021-07-27T20:32:49.296Z]	<Orie>	wait mDL phones home?
[2021-07-27T20:32:53.347Z]	<by_caballero>	well
[2021-07-27T20:32:58.985Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:33:00.252Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: relevant right now as mDL has phone home stuff that DHS is asking about
[2021-07-27T20:33:01.705Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	we should do a proposal to have it on record
[2021-07-27T20:33:01.853Z]	<mprorock>	current mDL phones home
[2021-07-27T20:33:02.637Z]	<Orie>	so we can't support it unless we agree to support phone home?
[2021-07-27T20:33:20.848Z]	<by_caballero>	an online door
[2021-07-27T20:33:42.031Z]	<Brian_Richter>	chadwick: mdl has a back door (optional) that is part of the model that user can contact RP saying i have drivers licence and you can go to the issuer to find it
[2021-07-27T20:34:05.459Z]	<Brian_Richter>	chadwick: mdl people don't like it and are moving to VCs in version 2 so that they can stop that backdoor
[2021-07-27T20:34:06.918Z]	<Orie>	I am trolling, maybe it would be helpful to highlight this problem.
[2021-07-27T20:34:09.391Z]	<mprorock>	+1 David - VC extensions will help remove the phone home
[2021-07-27T20:34:09.664Z]	<manu>	PRE-PROPOSAL: The VC HTTP API Work Item group will not define a "phone home" mechanism at present as it creates a privacy danger when a verifier contacts an issuer directly.
[2021-07-27T20:34:25.723Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:34:27.223Z]	<by_caballero>	sgtm
[2021-07-27T20:34:29.121Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:34:30.838Z]	<by_caballero>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:34:32.926Z]	<by_caballero>	sorry
[2021-07-27T20:34:37.191Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	add "about a particular credential or subject"
[2021-07-27T20:34:37.340Z]	<Orie>	I am in favor of repetition when it comes to privacy / security
[2021-07-27T20:34:40.453Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: would anyone object to that being run? not running it yet
[2021-07-27T20:34:55.921Z]	<Brian_Richter>	brent: only thing i would add is it "may" create privacy issue
[2021-07-27T20:35:00.265Z]	<by_caballero>	brent +1
[2021-07-27T20:35:02.549Z]	<manu>	PRE-PROPOSAL: The VC HTTP API Work Item group will not define a "phone home" mechanism at present as it may create a privacy danger when a verifier contacts an issuer directly.
[2021-07-27T20:35:34.724Z]	<Brian_Richter>	Joe_Andrieu: appending about a particular credential
[2021-07-27T20:35:36.304Z]	<manu>	PRE-PROPOSAL: The VC HTTP API Work Item group will not define a "phone home" mechanism at present as it may create a privacy danger when a verifier contacts an issuer directly about a particular credential.
[2021-07-27T20:35:38.156Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:35:41.097Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-27T20:35:42.360Z]	<manu>	ack mpro
[2021-07-27T20:36:08.592Z]	<Kaliya>	Here is the DHS RFI re: mDL - it references many time that the DHS agencies will ping drivers licecne databasess and asks about the privacy implcations of this - https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/04/19/2021-07957/minimum-standards-for-drivers-licenses-and-identification-cards-acceptable-by-federal-agencies-for
[2021-07-27T20:36:12.297Z]	<Brian_Richter>	mprorock: one use case around phone home is in cases of firearms background checks and there may need to be a manual sign off.. something to be aware of
[2021-07-27T20:36:21.699Z]	<Kaliya>	its due date was extended - https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2021/06/16/2021-12616/public-meeting-and-extension-of-comment-period-on-request-for-information-minimum-standards-for
[2021-07-27T20:36:26.815Z]	<manu>	PRE-PROPOSAL: The VC HTTP API Work Item group will not define a "phone home" mechanism at present as it may create a privacy danger when a verifier contacts an issuer directly about a particular credential. Vendors are free to implement such a system, but we are not going to define it in the standard at present.
[2021-07-27T20:36:29.087Z]	<by_caballero>	at present
[2021-07-27T20:36:42.585Z]	<manu>	PROPOSAL: The VC HTTP API Work Item group will not define a "phone home" mechanism at present as it may create a privacy danger when a verifier contacts an issuer directly about a particular credential. Vendors are free to implement such a system, but we are not going to define it in the standard at present.
[2021-07-27T20:36:43.550Z]	<by_caballero>	maybe when we have some gun-purchase/mental-health use cases we can reconsider :D
[2021-07-27T20:36:44.103Z]	<manu>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:36:45.182Z]	<mprorock>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:36:46.734Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:36:46.910Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:36:48.056Z]	<Kaliya>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:36:48.093Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: running proposal
[2021-07-27T20:36:48.413Z]	<by_caballero>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:36:49.494Z]	<Brian_Richter>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:36:49.640Z]	<brent>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:36:51.873Z]	<TallTed>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:36:56.827Z]	<Justin_Richer>	+0 it's pointless signaling
[2021-07-27T20:37:01.248Z]	<DavidC>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:37:02.498Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	1
[2021-07-27T20:37:05.343Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:37:06.187Z]	<Mahmoud>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:37:11.960Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:37:12.129Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	-0 This issue should stay open until we understand the authorization protocols
[2021-07-27T20:37:20.700Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	/me @justin it is signalling to our future selves.
[2021-07-27T20:37:22.149Z]	<by_caballero>	well if it's virtue signaling i'm changing my vote to +2 :D
[2021-07-27T20:37:52.764Z]	<manu>	RESOLVED: The VC HTTP API Work Item group will not define a "phone home" mechanism at present as it may create a privacy danger when a verifier contacts an issuer directly about a particular credential. Vendors are free to implement such a system, but we are not going to define it in the standard at present.
[2021-07-27T20:37:58.921Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: adrian if you'd like to raise this issue in context of authz thats appropriate
[2021-07-27T20:38:42.961Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: that issue is closed.. next issue is #40
[2021-07-27T20:38:44.401Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/40
[2021-07-27T20:39:34.504Z]	<Dmitri_Z>	present+
[2021-07-27T20:39:37.328Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: raised by markus discussed by Kim.. title is: remove public facing API calls. this is meant to be an internal API calls this shouldn't have any operations public and those should be removed. remove credential status and refresh
[2021-07-27T20:39:51.134Z]	<mprorock>	all apis are public, even internal ones from my opinion, adding auth is another path
[2021-07-27T20:39:53.613Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:39:59.136Z]	<Orie>	> all apis are public, even internal ones from my opinion, adding auth is another path
[2021-07-27T20:40:00.922Z]	<Orie>	+1
[2021-07-27T20:40:20.461Z]	<Brian_Richter>	orie: this is stale and should be closed
[2021-07-27T20:40:20.967Z]	<by_caballero>	close it
[2021-07-27T20:40:21.242Z]	<mprorock>	+1 close as stale
[2021-07-27T20:40:28.720Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:40:29.419Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1 stale
[2021-07-27T20:40:34.649Z]	<manu>	ack joe
[2021-07-27T20:40:36.281Z]	<manu>	ack justin
[2021-07-27T20:40:36.923Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	again, this is an authorization issue
[2021-07-27T20:40:51.913Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	I was going to say "refresh" is necessarily public
[2021-07-27T20:41:06.732Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to talk about refresh as public
[2021-07-27T20:41:16.768Z]	<Brian_Richter>	justin: the idea of a public API. you need to differentiate using some system. we just had a long discussion about controlling APIs.. this is part and parcel with the authz discussion
[2021-07-27T20:41:20.272Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:41:24.320Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	+1 Justin
[2021-07-27T20:41:39.603Z]	<manu>	ack joe
[2021-07-27T20:41:49.343Z]	<Brian_Richter>	justin: if closing this as stale the group is admitting that the group is admitting they need to discuss this
[2021-07-27T20:41:57.963Z]	<Brian_Richter>	Joe_Andrieu: confused as refresh is public
[2021-07-27T20:42:05.126Z]	<Orie>	all APIs should be secured
[2021-07-27T20:42:34.680Z]	<manu>	ack Tall
[2021-07-27T20:42:38.580Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-07-27T20:42:39.196Z]	<Brian_Richter>	Joe_Andrieu: whoever is satisfying the refresh it is being called by the holder and i dont think the holder is calling it.. we don't have a good mental model for holders
[2021-07-27T20:43:08.371Z]	<Orie>	in a world where, we spent more time following security best practices and less time imagine a future without OAuth...
[2021-07-27T20:43:13.824Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	+1 to Ted's "all external as a ZTA issue
[2021-07-27T20:43:18.311Z]	<Brian_Richter>	TallTallTed: there can not be any thing as an internal API in a space that involves security and crypto. everything needs to be treated as external and the authorized agent needs to be known
[2021-07-27T20:43:24.539Z]	<DavidC>	+1 TallTed
[2021-07-27T20:43:30.308Z]	<Orie>	+1 TallTed
[2021-07-27T20:43:38.301Z]	<mprorock>	+1 TallTed
[2021-07-27T20:43:54.693Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to highlight "internal" v "public"
[2021-07-27T20:44:01.001Z]	<manu>	ack Joe
[2021-07-27T20:44:03.677Z]	<Brian_Richter>	TallTallTed: it might be stale but this isn't grounds for closing.. maybe a new issue but theres still discussion here
[2021-07-27T20:44:05.194Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-07-27T20:44:57.063Z]	<Brian_Richter>	Joe_Andrieu: theres confusion here of internal/external vs internal/public. is the api intended to be used by the public?
[2021-07-27T20:45:43.508Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: hearing close the issue as it doesn't cut to the point. open new issues for various points of debate
[2021-07-27T20:46:00.580Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: hearing "there should be authz around these endpoints"
[2021-07-27T20:46:19.976Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: hearing "don't presume internal v external.. not a good way to think about endpoints"
[2021-07-27T20:46:21.264Z]	<TallTed>	I would generally keep this and other bluntly directed issues open until the better-pointed issue(s) is/are created
[2021-07-27T20:46:39.132Z]	<Orie>	the issue discusses endpoints that don't exist.... in the current spec.... not closing it, invites confusion. maybe we should read the latest api definitions first next time.
[2021-07-27T20:46:39.750Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:47:16.839Z]	<Brian_Richter>	TallTallTed: should leave open with a note to create a new issue
[2021-07-27T20:47:17.857Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1 to TallTed's suggestion
[2021-07-27T20:47:45.590Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie - API definitions in issue are no longer relevant
[2021-07-27T20:49:00.637Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/40#issuecomment-887824499
[2021-07-27T20:49:14.402Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/42
[2021-07-27T20:49:34.057Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: next issue up is #42.. jwt encoding of VCs. orie opened up and there is work item now
[2021-07-27T20:49:44.649Z]	<Brian_Richter>	orie: would like to close and cross link to new work item. doing that
[2021-07-27T20:49:56.685Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/43
[2021-07-27T20:50:19.278Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: next issue is #43. design discussion is wondering whether we should be using service APIs vs RESTful APIs
[2021-07-27T20:50:33.753Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:50:39.443Z]	<TallTed>	q-
[2021-07-27T20:50:41.479Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: james said maybe REST isn't the right approach. maybe POST or creating isn't the right level of abstraction
[2021-07-27T20:51:11.284Z]	<Brian_Richter>	orie: we don't support any form of reading credentials.. not list no get by id. none of that is supported
[2021-07-27T20:51:14.781Z]	<manu>	ack orie
[2021-07-27T20:51:38.559Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:51:53.939Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: another note previous resolution: API style guide we are going to use is controller style w/ json schema. any deviations will be discussed by group
[2021-07-27T20:51:58.725Z]	<manu>	ack adrian
[2021-07-27T20:52:41.693Z]	<Orie>	please read the current API definitions
[2021-07-27T20:52:46.279Z]	<Orie>	before the next call.
[2021-07-27T20:52:53.613Z]	<Brian_Richter>	agropper: curious about comment: API does not support GET? am i to assume this api only supports push
[2021-07-27T20:52:55.254Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:53:35.049Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: API is to issue VCs. as an authority you call the API to issue a VC and then you hand it off in external process. there is not get credential
[2021-07-27T20:54:03.496Z]	<Orie>	the current api spec does not render correctly either
[2021-07-27T20:54:04.765Z]	<TallTed>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/35#issuecomment-866314656 says "RESOLVED: In general, the VC HTTP API style will conform to restfulapi.net guidelines ..."   Seems to answer issue#43 directly
[2021-07-27T20:54:18.053Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-http-api/issuer.html
[2021-07-27T20:54:23.416Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-http-api/holder.html
[2021-07-27T20:54:32.220Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-http-api/verifier.html
[2021-07-27T20:54:33.737Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:54:34.631Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:54:39.104Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie - current specs are not
"in spec" anymore
[2021-07-27T20:54:42.791Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-07-27T20:54:45.006Z]	<manu>	ack TallTed
[2021-07-27T20:55:00.603Z]	<mprorock>	+1 ted
[2021-07-27T20:55:00.920Z]	<Orie>	thank you TallTed
[2021-07-27T20:55:05.448Z]	<Brian_Richter>	TallTallTed: resolution linked answers #43 directly
[2021-07-27T20:55:52.088Z]	<Brian_Richter>	orie: current API isn't included in respec but I pasted above. there is issuer/holder/verifier these are the current APIs. encourage people to take a look at these. these are the primary work that has been done
[2021-07-27T20:55:59.342Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-07-27T20:56:05.045Z]	<manu>	ack orie
[2021-07-27T20:56:14.825Z]	<Brian_Richter>	orie: please take a look and you'll see there isn't a lot there. no querying
[2021-07-27T20:56:22.938Z]	<manu>	ack mpro
[2021-07-27T20:56:37.803Z]	<by_caballero>	VeeeHAPPY
[2021-07-27T20:56:45.830Z]	<TallTed>	Are those linked from VC-HTTP-API repo README(s)?
[2021-07-27T20:57:07.751Z]	<Orie>	TallTed, no, folks keep moving things, breaking links, and not updating the readme.
[2021-07-27T20:57:09.783Z]	<Brian_Richter>	mprorock: this might be a history thing.. when i first came in was thinking we would be doing all of the restful things.. feels like a gap
[2021-07-27T20:57:17.757Z]	<Orie>	PRs welcome.
[2021-07-27T20:57:46.233Z]	<TallTed>	*sighs*  I spend more time on editing README(s)....
[2021-07-27T20:58:16.598Z]	<Orie>	example
[2021-07-27T20:58:17.007Z]	<Orie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/#issuer
[2021-07-27T20:58:23.806Z]	<by_caballero>	"please update the readme" is the new "please address merge conflicts"
[2021-07-27T20:58:25.933Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie
[2021-07-27T20:58:32.649Z]	<Brian_Richter>	manu: at the top of the hour. I'm trying to get the OAS files to render native in respec. trying to get it officially integrated. might need help from orie
[2021-07-27T20:58:55.612Z]	<mprorock>	also useful to bundle all api endpoints into a single spec file
