[2021-07-26T14:53:13.291Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-07-26T14:53:13.292Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Jul/0251.html
[2021-07-26T14:54:10.423Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	chair: Kerri_Lemoie
[2021-07-26T14:57:38.527Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-07-26T14:59:01.639Z]	<Kerri>	present+
[2021-07-26T14:59:38.590Z]	<Phil_Barker>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:00:30.592Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:00:34.825Z]	<Kerri>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:01:53.786Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:01:57.086Z]	<Kimberly_Linson>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:02:04.328Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:02:08.009Z]	<Colin>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:02:39.843Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:03:10.678Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	fyi there were a couple of folks in the mit zoom
[2021-07-26T15:03:39.646Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	i'll pop back in and let 'em know
[2021-07-26T15:03:46.642Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:04:09.842Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:04:17.817Z]	<Steve_Gance>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:04:34.633Z]	<Matt_Lisle>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:05:35.458Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2021-07-26T15:05:38.820Z]	<Marty_Reed>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:05:59.179Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-07-26T15:06:11.129Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:06:46.240Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dxjsfu1MDPlfb5Q3Ry-KEDYX2gj5WNkFqw1esyki-sQ/edit#
[2021-07-26T15:07:10.583Z]	<Ozgur_Y>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:08:45.453Z]	<Phil_Barker>	phil_barker scribing
[2021-07-26T15:08:45.944Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Dmitri: here's how to scribe
[2021-07-26T15:09:10.085Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	q+
[2021-07-26T15:09:10.212Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Kerri: any introductions?
[2021-07-26T15:09:59.754Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:10:11.163Z]	<Adam_Lemmon_(C.T)>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:10:19.217Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:10:20.526Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Dmitri: reintroduction. s/w engineering working creds and digital ID, with digital bazaar and MIT DCC, stepping in to some on Kim's roles
[2021-07-26T15:10:38.430Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://osn21.e-attend.com/
[2021-07-26T15:11:24.149Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Kerri: announcement OSN21 summit on rich skill descriptors this week
[2021-07-26T14:53:13.293Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Open Badges 3.0 Proposal Update
[2021-07-26T15:12:23.365Z]	<Phil_Barker>	... presentation last week to IMS. Will be meeting with IMS Open Badges & IMS CLR teams. More updates in couple of weeks
[2021-07-26T15:12:47.934Z]	<Simone_Ravaioli_(Digitary)>	present+
[2021-07-26T14:53:13.293Z]      <Kerri_Lemoie> topic: Complex Credentials Breakout Group
[2021-07-26T15:12:53.730Z]	<Phil_Barker>	... Marty to give update on complex credentials work.
[2021-07-26T15:13:37.700Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Marty Reed: Phil Long will do intro
[2021-07-26T15:14:13.707Z]	<Phil_Barker>	... Randa have been work on more complex credentials
[2021-07-26T15:14:53.376Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Phil_L: problem statement: represent complexity of real-world credentials, in practical, pragmatic way
[2021-07-26T15:15:19.023Z]	<Phil_Barker>	... worked from examples, tried to break them down
[2021-07-26T15:16:15.721Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Scribe: Phil_Barker
[2021-07-26T15:16:28.906Z]	<Phil_Barker>	... looked at what needs to be signed? where  do they need to "live"? how to preserve learner/worker agency? how to respect expectations of issuer?
[2021-07-26T15:17:15.775Z]	<Phil_Barker>	... two examples: licensure & EU Diploma Supplement
[2021-07-26T15:17:35.107Z]	<Jim_Goodell>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:18:13.241Z]	<Phil_Barker>	... for diploma supplements existing solution could be CLR with OCP
[2021-07-26T15:19:21.981Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Marty: CLR more complex than Badge because has multiple layers. Has concept of acheivement, which in Diploma Supplement is diploma itself.
[2021-07-26T15:19:55.189Z]	<Phil_Barker>	... also includes Alignments to frameworks, Assertions, Evidence
[2021-07-26T15:21:07.754Z]	<Phil_Barker>	... diagram of how to map content of diploma supplement & JSON-LD strawman example
[2021-07-26T15:21:50.890Z]	<Phil_Barker>	... Assertions = Claims, i.e. that Diploma has been awarded
[2021-07-26T15:23:22.666Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	q+ to ask (after presentation) about bundling of granular verifiable assertions, desired capabilities.
[2021-07-26T15:23:23.716Z]	<Phil_Barker>	... Open Credential Publisher shows this information as acheivement and assertions, from multiple institutions
[2021-07-26T15:23:46.574Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack
[2021-07-26T15:23:51.878Z]	<Stuart_Freeman>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:23:55.470Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:23:57.913Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:24:21.626Z]	<dmitriz>	ack Dmitri_Zagidulin
[2021-07-26T15:24:36.618Z]	<dmitriz>	ack Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky
[2021-07-26T15:25:04.217Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-07-26T15:25:14.112Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Nate Otto: What use cases for bundling assertions that are independently verifiable? What does bundling/unbudnling do with respect to cryptographic signing?
[2021-07-26T15:25:20.490Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	ack ottonomy
[2021-07-26T15:25:38.013Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	Oh you got me already thx
[2021-07-26T15:26:39.030Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Marty: we package all assertions as a single credentials so that don't have to provide new definition everytime number of assertions are changed.
[2021-07-26T15:27:02.601Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Nate Otto: so cannot embed multiple assertiosn into one credetnial
[2021-07-26T15:27:30.446Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Phil_L: no, you can, but forcing factor is economics of cost and fees of blockchain environment.
[2021-07-26T15:27:48.146Z]	<Phil_Barker>	... you can sign individual components but it gets really large
[2021-07-26T15:28:35.599Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	q+ to make distinction between BBS+ multiple-bundled-claims-signed vs bundle-of-multiple-signed-claims-from-different-issuers
[2021-07-26T15:28:36.637Z]	<Dmitri_Zagidulin>	@Phil_L - I can take over at any point
[2021-07-26T15:28:39.233Z]	<Phil_Barker>	Marty: BBS+(?) allows signing of whole and individual, but haven't seen that yet. Hasn't been flesged out
[2021-07-26T15:28:41.204Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:28:49.273Z]	<Phil_Barker>	@Dmitri, over to you
[2021-07-26T15:28:57.281Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q+
[2021-07-26T15:28:58.030Z]	<dmitriz>	scribe: dmitriz
[2021-07-26T15:29:01.188Z]	<dmitriz>	scribenick: dmitriz
[2021-07-26T15:29:17.700Z]	<dmitriz>	Kerri_Lemoie: can you compare your implementation to how LERs are implemented?
[2021-07-26T15:29:32.388Z]	<dmitriz>	... we talked about LERs in the spring a bit, but not everyone is familiar
[2021-07-26T15:29:34.911Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Kerri Lemoie
[2021-07-26T15:29:38.858Z]	<Ozgur_Y>	q+
[2021-07-26T15:29:59.821Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack kerri_lemoie
[2021-07-26T15:30:07.379Z]	<dmitriz>	Marty: so, the entire assertion is signed, with LERs
[2021-07-26T15:30:22.215Z]	<dmitriz>	... what we've done is AND'd it -- both the CLR is signed, AND individual assertions are signed
[2021-07-26T15:30:36.621Z]	<dmitriz>	... and it's up to the holder wallet to decide how those assertions are sent to the verifier
[2021-07-26T15:30:45.181Z]	<dmitriz>	... if the OCP wants to repackage assertions, then it's actually a self-published assertion/credential
[2021-07-26T15:30:52.034Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:31:05.838Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Nate_Otto
[2021-07-26T15:31:14.863Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:31:16.464Z]	<dmitriz>	Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky: you had an interesting point about BBS+
[2021-07-26T15:31:25.948Z]	<dmitriz>	... about selective disclosure of individual assertions
[2021-07-26T15:31:30.922Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Scribe: dmitriz
[2021-07-26T15:31:38.453Z]	<dmitriz>	... doesn't that require all assertions to be issued by the same issuer?
[2021-07-26T15:31:52.283Z]	<dmitriz>	... is a complex credential a bundle of creds from multiple issuers?
[2021-07-26T15:32:00.515Z]	<dmitriz>	... or can it have multiple issuers?
[2021-07-26T15:32:02.014Z]	<tayken>	present+
[2021-07-26T15:32:22.809Z]	<dmitriz>	Marty: that's still to be defined
[2021-07-26T15:32:36.621Z]	<dmitriz>	... this diploma use case was nice in that it has a single issuer.
[2021-07-26T15:32:36.621Z]	<dmitriz>	q+
[2021-07-26T15:32:50.461Z]	<dmitriz>	Marty: my hope, especially from perspective of licensure
[2021-07-26T15:33:07.057Z]	<Phil_Barker>	q+ on multiple issuers
[2021-07-26T15:33:16.309Z]	<dmitriz>	... is that we can use BBS+
[2021-07-26T15:33:29.053Z]	<dmitriz>	... there's always the last mile problem -- how does the verifier want that dat?
[2021-07-26T15:33:38.872Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-07-26T15:33:42.185Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:33:49.805Z]	<dmitriz>	... for example, as Orie mentions, you /always/ present it as a Verifiable Presentation (never a standalone VC)_
[2021-07-26T15:33:55.692Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, lots to be learned / figured out still
[2021-07-26T15:34:10.847Z]	<dmitriz>	... one thing to mention - in other implementations, we have samples of an Open Badge as an assertion
[2021-07-26T15:34:21.918Z]	<dmitriz>	... and so, the alignment of CLR and OB should align here, in VC Edu work
[2021-07-26T15:34:41.019Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L
[2021-07-26T15:34:58.098Z]	<dmitriz>	Phil_L_(P1): in the EU, given the Bologna Accord, a transcript can have multiple issuers
[2021-07-26T15:35:12.648Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:35:18.711Z]	<dmitriz>	... so this use case has to be able to properly reflect that
[2021-07-26T15:35:33.285Z]	<dmitriz>	... part of the challenge here is that the CLR as a framework doesn't have the concept of a Presentation like VC/VP does
[2021-07-26T15:35:55.262Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, one of our challenges is to figure out how (or whether) we can have a Presentation concept. (which is important, particularly in terms of the agency of the Holder)
[2021-07-26T15:36:04.035Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, we need to figure out how to bring it together
[2021-07-26T15:36:23.896Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack ozgur_Y
[2021-07-26T15:36:26.126Z]	<dmitriz>	Ozgur_Y: a key component of the CLR is the Association, which defines rel'ship between Achievements
[2021-07-26T15:36:32.424Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:36:35.439Z]	<dmitriz>	... was that included in the model?
[2021-07-26T15:36:36.138Z]	<dmitriz>	Marty: No, but that's a good point
[2021-07-26T15:37:14.781Z]	<dmitriz>	Ozgur_Y: I think that last week we discussed how a single credential can be represented, in the Open Badges WG. Here, we're trying to represent multiple credentials
[2021-07-26T15:37:33.092Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, we should try to align the two, see how we can represent multiple VCs in the same structure
[2021-07-26T15:37:41.671Z]	<dmitriz>	... so then, the only component missing would be Associations
[2021-07-26T15:38:17.027Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack dmitriz
[2021-07-26T15:38:48.477Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:38:49.009Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	+1 Dimitri
[2021-07-26T15:39:02.876Z]	<dmitriz>	dmitriz: that's exactly what a Verifiable Presentation is for - to bundle multiple VCs in one package
[2021-07-26T15:39:30.094Z]	<dmitriz>	Phil_Barker: one way of dealing with the diploma use case, is that -- it is from a single issuer (whoever issued the Diploma Supplement)
[2021-07-26T15:39:35.141Z]	<dmitriz>	... but it also contains info from other issuers
[2021-07-26T15:39:48.456Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_Barker
[2021-07-26T15:39:57.768Z]	<dmitriz>	... we can represent the trust / attendance relationships with simple VCs
[2021-07-26T15:40:17.151Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, one approach to multiple issuers is to ask - are they actually issuers of the credential, or do they supplement or provide additional information? (without issuing it)
[2021-07-26T15:40:35.620Z]	<dmitriz>	Marty: each assertion, in this context, is its own VC.
[2021-07-26T15:40:42.879Z]	<dmitriz>	... and then the entire package is a VC as well. that adds bulk / complexity, we recognize that
[2021-07-26T15:40:48.111Z]	<dmitriz>	... but it also solves these multiple problems
[2021-07-26T15:42:10.785Z]	<dmitriz>	Kerri_Lemoie: there's a concept, with CLRs, of Issuer, vs Publisher. Can you describe the difference?
[2021-07-26T15:42:25.821Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Kerri_Lemoie
[2021-07-26T15:42:46.348Z]	<dmitriz>	Ozgur_Y: The Issuer is basically to create the credential. The Publisher is just displaying it / providing the environment to present it online
[2021-07-26T15:43:00.450Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q+
[2021-07-26T15:43:18.072Z]	<dmitriz>	Kerri_Lemoie: So, for a VC version of a CLR, would you still have both a Publisher and Issuer roles?
[2021-07-26T15:43:25.585Z]	<dmitriz>	Ozgur_Y: Yes, you'd need both
[2021-07-26T15:43:29.257Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:43:40.210Z]	<dmitriz>	... for instance, Aphis (?) is a publisher software
[2021-07-26T15:43:50.382Z]	<dmitriz>	... as a learner, I receive credentials from multiple issuers
[2021-07-26T15:44:03.386Z]	<dmitriz>	... and they've all been gathered and moved to a specific environment where it's now published
[2021-07-26T15:44:22.641Z]	<dmitriz>	... so I can display all the credentials I've gathered in my lifetime
[2021-07-26T15:44:36.485Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_l_
[2021-07-26T15:44:44.023Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:44:47.397Z]	<dmitriz>	Phil_L_(P1): I think one of the things to note here - in some sense, it's the way in which the concept of the Presentation has been interpreted, for the CLR
[2021-07-26T15:45:03.075Z]	<dmitriz>	... because anything that is assembled (other than directly from the issuer), in the CLR world, is a Self-Published Credential
[2021-07-26T15:45:33.028Z]	<dmitriz>	... in the context of a Presentation, the assembly of those different things is the work of the Holder and their wallet. They obviously retain the issuer signatures, to guarantee authenticity
[2021-07-26T15:45:47.630Z]	<dmitriz>	... in my view, it's kind of enabling the notion of presentations without necessarily the full notion of a wallet
[2021-07-26T15:45:53.811Z]	<dmitriz>	... so it may be just a historical decision
[2021-07-26T15:46:12.204Z]	<dmitriz>	... but there's a clarity, in the use of a VP, that is achieved by emerging wallet, so we may want to leverage
[2021-07-26T15:46:35.620Z]	<dmitriz>	Phil_L_(P1): the VP concept is interesting, I just haven't seen examples of it, so we just went without it in the moment
[2021-07-26T15:46:52.053Z]	<dmitriz>	... but I'm following with interest the work of the VC HTTP API group, to see how the VP is interpreted from the Verifier viewpoint
[2021-07-26T15:47:04.455Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, we want to meet the market where it's at, and then iterate forward
[2021-07-26T15:47:08.264Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:47:31.931Z]	<dmitriz>	Kerri_Lemoie: so what do you think is the next step, wrt complex credentials and VCs?
[2021-07-26T15:47:52.510Z]	<dmitriz>	Marty: from a WG standpoint, we want to explore more the relationship between VC and VP
[2021-07-26T15:48:01.077Z]	<dmitriz>	... my hope is that we continue with the Diploma Supplement usecase
[2021-07-26T15:48:18.183Z]	<dmitriz>	... because it's such a substantial use case, it brings international perspective (to what some have seen as  a very US-centric field)
[2021-07-26T15:48:37.536Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, the hope there is that - we have this perfect UC from an international perspective, and if we implement it, it'll fulfill the US use case too
[2021-07-26T15:48:59.835Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	q+
[2021-07-26T15:49:12.310Z]	<dmitriz>	... we've had a lot of spirited debate around the multiple issuer problem of a complex credential. Also, the economics (of accumulator-based ledgers like Indy) or complex credentials, should not be dismissed
[2021-07-26T15:49:30.238Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L_
[2021-07-26T15:49:38.467Z]	<dmitriz>	Phil_L_(P1): The work that you and Nate have done, in terms of thinking through the credential, in the context of a single-assertion Badge,
[2021-07-26T15:49:44.813Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q+
[2021-07-26T15:49:51.954Z]	<dmitriz>	... and how that might be leveraged as a core element of a multiple assertion environment, is something we should take into equal account
[2021-07-26T15:50:02.620Z]	<dmitriz>	... it gives a good starting point for a majority of use cases
[2021-07-26T15:50:04.779Z]	<Ozgur_Y>	q+
[2021-07-26T15:50:08.188Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q-
[2021-07-26T15:50:12.883Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2021-07-26T15:50:18.641Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:50:26.755Z]	<dmitriz>	... and then we can also reconcile it with multi-issuer use cases
[2021-07-26T15:50:40.557Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack: Ozgur_Y
[2021-07-26T15:50:57.128Z]	<dmitriz>	Ozgur_Y: I'd like to support Phil's idea. It's a natural path, to finalize a single credential, and then a multiple credential bundle can just be based on that structure
[2021-07-26T15:51:02.753Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, have a single pathway to adoption
[2021-07-26T15:51:24.369Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:51:24.641Z]	<dmitriz>	... once you handle the multiple credential use case, adding the Association notion will unite the two structures together
[2021-07-26T15:51:33.504Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marty_Reed
[2021-07-26T15:51:50.893Z]	<dmitriz>	Marty_Reed: I also want to third that support for the work that Concentric Sky, Nate, Kerri, have done with that structure
[2021-07-26T15:52:00.654Z]	<dmitriz>	... the workstreams inform each other well
[2021-07-26T15:52:16.205Z]	<dmitriz>	... there's 43 million badges issues. we have 19 million more complex credentials in our system, so there's definitely a market need
[2021-07-26T15:52:17.997Z]	<dmitriz>	... for both
[2021-07-26T15:52:28.088Z]	<dmitriz>	... but both of them aligning well, and informing each other, is really the way to go
[2021-07-26T15:52:31.501Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:52:54.827Z]	<dmitriz>	Kerri_Lemoie: thank you, Marty, Phil, and everybody for all your questions. appreciated
[2021-07-26T15:53:03.426Z]	<dmitriz>	... I was wondering if folks have ideas for the next few calls' topics to be
[2021-07-26T15:53:11.707Z]	<dmitriz>	... we don't have anything queued up just yet. so, any requests?
[2021-07-26T15:53:17.979Z]	<dmitriz>	... feel free to put it in the chat, or email me
[2021-07-26T15:53:20.472Z]	<Marty_Reed>	revisit the use cases list
[2021-07-26T15:53:22.969Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	klemoie@concentricsky.com
[2021-07-26T15:53:41.006Z]	<dmitriz>	... also, we may want to change the meeting time. (not until mid- or end of August)
[2021-07-26T15:53:52.595Z]	<Marty_Reed>	q+
[2021-07-26T15:53:53.257Z]	<dmitriz>	... anybody else have other questions/items for today?
[2021-07-26T15:54:03.828Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Marty_Reed
[2021-07-26T15:54:18.388Z]	<dmitriz>	Marty_Reed: when I first joined this VC Edu WG, Kim's work for defining use cases -- I think revisiting that would be super valuable
[2021-07-26T15:54:32.689Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:54:35.138Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	Thanks for the presentation today, Marty and Phil. +1 to understanding what the use cases are for complex credentials, specifically in terms of consumption-side use cases.
[2021-07-26T15:54:37.036Z]	<dmitriz>	... the entire group has done some work on this, and developed some examplars, so, revisiting would be very valluable
[2021-07-26T15:54:45.035Z]	<dmitriz>	Kerri_Lemoie: that would be great, I like that idea
[2021-07-26T15:54:48.177Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	+1 for use cases
[2021-07-26T15:54:58.482Z]	<Nate_Otto_(@ottonomy)_Badgr/CSky>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-ed-use-cases/issues
[2021-07-26T15:55:41.851Z]	<dmitriz>	Kerri_Lemoie: to submit a use case, either follow the GitHub issue template, or I have a Google Form somewhere, that makes it even easier
[2021-07-26T15:55:45.861Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	https://docs.google.com/forms/d/15I9qzi-_F5G-ZjSJKLzgJZsJUv8JSvLlcxFNjE0uEcc/edit
[2021-07-26T15:55:57.729Z]	<dmitriz>	... so, next week, we'll revisit those use cases
[2021-07-26T15:56:02.789Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	q?
[2021-07-26T15:56:05.388Z]	<Phil_L_(P1)>	Q+
[2021-07-26T15:56:14.402Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	ack Phil_L
[2021-07-26T15:56:27.228Z]	<dmitriz>	Phil_L_(P1): I think the UC notion is really important. and it's useful, in that context, to think about super-groups of Use Cases as types
[2021-07-26T15:56:43.971Z]	<dmitriz>	... since one of our challenges is providing rationales to institutions, for other things than a single-issuer blob
[2021-07-26T15:57:16.344Z]	<dmitriz>	Kerri_Lemoie: thank you, all!
[2021-07-26T15:57:17.740Z]	<Colin_Reynolds,_Learning_Economy>	Thanks Kerri!
