Thanks to Our Robot Overlords for scribing this week!

The transcript for the call is now available here:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-01-24-vc-education/

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio of the meeting is available at the following location:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2022-01-24-vc-education/audio.ogg

----------------------------------------------------------------
VC for Education Task Force Transcript for 2022-01-24

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/2022Jan/0022.html
Topics:
  1. IP Note
  2. Call Notes
  3. Introductions & Reintroductions
  4. Announcements
  5. Transcription Update
  6. Julien Fraichot: Blockcerts v3
  7. Use Cases Update
Organizer:
  Simone Ravaoli
Scribe:
  Our Robot Overlords
Present:
  Simone Ravaoli, Stuart Freeman, Kerri Lemoie, Phil L (P1), Julien 
  Fraichot, John Kuo, Jason Hedges, Deb Everhart, Brandon 
  Muramatsu, Marty Reed, Matt Lisle, Phil (T3), Tayken (LEF), Jim 
  Kelly, Nate Otto, Colin, LEF, Ian Jacobs, Phil Barker, Kayode, 
  Andy Miller, Phil Long, David Ward, James Chartrand, Jessica 
  Ch'ng

<juancaballero> whoops
<simone_ravaioli> whoops
<simone_ravaioli> just testing access as a moderator here...
<juancaballero> ðŸ’ª
<phil_l_(p1)> Kerri - can you say something so I can tell if 
  audio is working on my end?
<kerri_lemoie> Phil - did you hear me do a test?
<phil_l_(p1)> Nope.  Firefox may not be the best option.  thanks.
Our Robot Overlords are scribing.
Simone Ravaoli:  And I think we are live recording is on.
Simone Ravaoli:  Yes we are hello everyone welcome back this is 
  our weekly w3c verifiable credentials edu task force and I am 
  Simone I'll be moderating today's meeting with the support of the 
  other co-chairs Kerri and Dmitri Dimitri so let's go through the 
  usual boilerplate items and then we can dive into the content for 
  today's agenda.
Simone Ravaoli:   Linda.

Topic: IP Note

Simone Ravaoli:  So IP notes anyone can participate in this calls 
  as you know however contribute contributors to any CG work items 
  must be members of the CG with full IP our agreement signed the 
  link to join is the agenda will make sure to post it in the chat 
  to you have to ensure that you have w3c account that's pretty 
  easy and the design the w3c community contributor license 
  agreement.
Simone Ravaoli:   Call notes.
<deb_everhart> still no audio

Topic: Call Notes

Simone Ravaoli:  These minutes and audio recording of everything 
  said on this call are archived online the link is also available 
  in the agenda to moderate things we use chat in IRC to queue up 
  speakers during the call as well as to take minutes well in fact 
  we now have an robot help to help transcribe it more on that 
  later in the chat if you want to speak just type q+.
Simone Ravaoli:   Self to the cube with an.
Simone Ravaoli:  No room.
Simone Ravaoli:  They're to mention something meaning q+ to ask 
  about Pilots for example if you're not on chat RC simply has to 
  be put on the Queue will find a way to to hear you please be 
  brief so the rest of you can get a chance to chime in you can 
  always keep lost again.
Simone Ravaoli:  .
<brandon_muramatsu> Brandon Muramatsu: present+
Simone Ravaoli:  That does it for our boiler plates so moving 
  down our agenda we have introductions and reintroductions.

Topic: Introductions & Reintroductions

Simone Ravaoli:  I wonder at this time if there's anyone you to 
  call or that simply would like to say hello again.
Simone Ravaoli:  I don't hear anyone.
Brandon_Muramatsu: I don't hear anyone hey Simone a this is 
  Brandon Moss I was going to introduce myself I work with the team 
  at MIT I know a number of folks on this call and I'm responsible 
  for product managing our learner credential wallet out of MIT and 
  the digital credentials Consortium and have been working closely 
  with folks like Dimitri Matt and Stewart and intersect with.
Brandon_Muramatsu: .
<kerri_lemoie> Hey @Brandon!
<john_kuo> audio is broken, relogging using another browser
Brandon_Muramatsu: Phil Long and Deb Everhart and carry 
  periodically.
<phil_(t3)> Welcome Brandon!
<phil_(t3)> Hey now....
Simone Ravaoli:  Great lovely to have you Brandon I welcome back 
  home and who doesn't intersect with Phil long anyways a field by 
  the way are you able to fix your audio that you want to try sound 
  check again.
Phil_(T3): All good.
Simone Ravaoli:  All good great all right I'm just going down the 
  list I would ask Jason Padgett's if you wouldn't mind just hey 
  there.
Jason_Hedges: Hey there folks yeah Jason Hedges Highland software 
  I'm a colleague of Julian's we were formerly from learning 
  machine and yeah first time that the call but it's great to meet 
  you all.
<kerri_lemoie> Hi @Jason_Hedges
Simone Ravaoli:  Great thanks for the support and great work 
  we'll hear more from you guys in a bit all right moving on to 
  announcement and reminders and reminders I think there is a link 
  with announcements ccg related but if anyone wants to mention 
  anything that is happening that we should be aware of events 
  just.

Topic: Announcements

Simone Ravaoli:   Zoom.
Simone Ravaoli:  Gangs.
Simone Ravaoli:  Anything please do so now.
Simone Ravaoli:  Here none maybe just worth reminding that the at 
  the end of February the IMs Global digital credential Summit is 
  happening both in real life and also there's an option to attend 
  virtually.
Simone Ravaoli:   The.
Simone Ravaoli:  My work for does intersect with what's happening 
  in IMS therefore I think it's just a good thing to keep track 
  off.
Kerri Lemoie:  Hi Simone this is Kerri I'm in the queue.
Simone Ravaoli:  Yeah all right thank you care.
Kerri Lemoie:  One event I wanted to mention is the internet 
  identity Workshop.
Kerri Lemoie:  .
Kerri Lemoie: 
  https://www.eventbrite.com/e/internet-identity-workshop-iiwxxxiv-34-2022a-tickets-220922293527
Kerri Lemoie:  I believe that early bird registration is still 
  open and I put a link to the chat.
<deb_everhart> audio ok in Safari
<simone_ravaioli> q ?
Simone Ravaoli:  Great thanks for the reminder and the reminder 
  also for me to check who isn't like you thanks Gary.
Simone Ravaoli:  Not too clear.
Simone Ravaoli:  All right.
Kerri Lemoie:  So do you know how to clear the cuse money okay 
  just hired by I'm so for instance you at ack I'm doing right now 
  and I carry underscore a little boy and then that would put me in 
  the floor if I typed it in right okay.
Kerri Lemoie:  So that puts me in the on the floor and then takes 
  me out of the queue.
Kerri Lemoie:  .
Simone Ravaoli:  That thank you Kerry all right so we're now 
  moving to the core agenda for today we have three items first 
  will hear an update on block starts from Julian and team possibly 
  we then will review these cases a little bit and also we need to 
  share where the survey around priorities landed.
Simone Ravaoli:   It and decide together.
<simone_ravaioli> q +
<simone_ravaioli> q ?
Kerri Lemoie:  Selenium in the Killian sorry.
Simone Ravaoli:  You do next whether we can refine it or add to 
  it or how do we want to plan for 2022 so at this point I would 
  ask Julian to take the floor unless there are any other question 
  in the queue all right.
Simone Ravaoli:  He's dead.

Topic: Transcription Update

Kerri Lemoie:  I do you mind before we get going that I give 
  folks an update on the I do transcriber and how that's going 
  thank you so you are y'all may have noticed that the minutes from 
  the last week's meeting took a really long time because the 
  transcriber went wild and I'm it took almost two and a half 
  hoursto clean up that content which was way too much soit was 
  actually upgraded the transcriber software and digital bizarre is 
  actually covering the cost of this at I think it's like $14 and.
Kerri Lemoie:   Meeting so it should be better but in the 
  meantime there you're.
Kerri Lemoie:  See.
Kerri Lemoie:  In the chat doing substitutions where I see things 
  that don't make sense as we go through to save us time when we're 
  publishing minutes later.
Kerri Lemoie:  Does it goes.
Kerri Lemoie:  .
Julien_Fraichot: Yes.
Julien_Fraichot: .
Simone Ravaoli:  Thank you Kerri thank you so much all right so 
  Julian can you hear me are you here with us do you want to take 
  take over great.
Simone Ravaoli:  .

Topic: Julien Fraichot: Blockcerts v3

Julien_Fraichot: Show no problem thank you very much for having 
  me and giving me a chance to present what we've done past year so 
  just to recap here like a Jason said we're coming from learning 
  machine we we developed blockcerts along with Kim Duffy had a 
  time and nurses left and we've been bowled over by Highland but 
  we pursued the work on block cert and now we've gone.
Julien_Fraichot:  into the version free.
<simone_ravaioli> q ?
Julien_Fraichot: Standard that I'm going to present with you now 
  if I'm able to share my screen.
Simone Ravaoli:  Sharing about them to spare the button there you 
  go.
Julien_Fraichot: So it's the first time I do this so let me just 
  figure it out let's suppose that would be this one yeah yeah oh I 
  may have to restart not compute not my computer but Firefox 
  actually because I'm sorry yeah I didn't expect that let me just 
  see.
Julien_Fraichot: .
<phil_(t3)> IIW Tue, Apr 26, 2022 8:00 AM - Thu, Apr 28, 2022 
  4:00 PM PDT. Early Bird tickets available until Feb. 18 ($450 for 
  businesses, $350 for independents, Students $65).
Simone Ravaoli:  All right.
Simone Ravaoli:  Yeah we've been having a few hiccups here on 
  sharing screens or audio but.
Simone Ravaoli:  Let me see if there's anyone in the queue before 
  Julian comes back online.
<simone_ravaioli> q ?
Simone Ravaoli:  And one from Highland want to chime in and just 
  let these few minutes before Julien comes back up.
Jason_Hedges: Hey I'm afraid I do not have a lot to add a really 
  came just wanting to see what Julian had to present I work more 
  myself on the the infrastructure side of what we're building the 
  yeah Julian should be back up soon and ready to go.
Simone Ravaoli:  Great but thanks Jason and I mean we do hope you 
  guys would consider just staying up-to-date or engage with the 
  group I think your work is going to.
Simone Ravaoli:   B.
Simone Ravaoli:  Important as we try to harmonize these 
  conversations that are happening across different work groups.
Jason_Hedges: Yes absolutely.
<simone_ravaioli> q ?
Simone Ravaoli:  And by the way if we'll get to it but if you 
  have not had a chance to order your list of priorities and or do 
  the survey in a in a way you may consider doing that while we 
  speak at the end of the call will review the results.
Simone Ravaoli:  Rumbling.
Simone Ravaoli:  The chair.
Simone Ravaoli:  Again.
Simone Ravaoli: https://m75pgc1uym3.typeform.com/to/EsAvHm9n
Simone Ravaoli:  How's the transcriber doing carry is it keeping 
  you busy.
Kerri Lemoie:  It is keeping me a little busy but it's not 
  terrible it's kind of fun although it means that I'm not really 
  comprehending the moment because I'm looking at content I'm 
  fixing it so I meant to listen to the recording later anyway yes 
  I miss anything today.
Kerri Lemoie:  But it's doing much better.
<simone_ravaioli> q ?
Kerri Lemoie:  And Simone you are I think you are using English 
  language now is that your preference in GT this time.
Simone Ravaoli:  I think I can fix that.
Kerri Lemoie:  His last week it was ridiculous every time you 
  spoke it made like it does not understand Italian at all it's 
  pretty funny.
Simone Ravaoli:  What we may do if Julian comes back and it 
  doesn't work maybe if he has a copy of the slides or if it's on 
  it's on my way you know I'm happy to share and drive.
Kerri Lemoie:  Yeah or if his a link to them if they're on a 
  drive who's put it in the chat.
Simone Ravaoli:  And I also say that if he has issues with 
  looking back in maybe we can just move to the next agenda item to 
  be covered that and then we'll go back to this yeah let's give me 
  another minute.
Simone Ravaoli:  I haven't seen coming back online and Carrie how 
  about we use this time to just for the quick update on cases.
Simone Ravaoli:  Yeah.
Kerri Lemoie:  Sure text me and share my screen real quick here.
<simone_ravaioli> q ?
Kerri Lemoie:  Whoa that's crazy all right can you see my screen.
Simone Ravaoli:  Yes.
Kerri Lemoie:  It's showing my all right so anyway I'm using 
  Safari today because of sound issue so I will just move this over 
  so you can see who my other window so what I've been doing here.
<julien_fraichot> I'm back, sorry unwanted update took place
<simone_ravaioli> Julien, we will get back to the Blockcerts 
  update in a minute...

Topic: Use Cases Update

Kerri Lemoie:  Last week the first week I really start to analyze 
  all of the submitted use cases that were sent in the Google 
  template and also submitted in the repo so I've been analyzing 
  all of these do that analysis is not dead first I was looking at 
  a part of the user needs that were listed first because I was 
  trying to figure out how we will fit this into this format that 
  follows the one.
Kerri Lemoie:   That was already established by Kim before.
<julien_fraichot> thanks Simone
Kerri Lemoie:  It was also follows the format of the VC the ccg 
  main use cases document so you'll see that I added a bunch of 
  different use cases and tried to categorize them so they just go 
  down here and of course this is all going to be in a different 
  document later but it's just easier to work for in a Google doc 
  now these were already there so I'm just going to keep them there 
  for now we can revisit them but I added things like CSS.
Kerri Lemoie:   Permanent endorsement demonstration of 
  achievement.
Kerri Lemoie:  Aryan.
<simone_ravaioli> If you still have issues with sharing your 
  screen, I can help drive.  do you have a link ?
Kerri Lemoie:  Membership and then I'm some subcategories of 
  these treaties some other ones so the first one was different 
  types of credentials which you know I know this is not a finite 
  list but this is what I put in for now another category is 
  issuing credentials that are embedded in a credential which is 
  something that has come up a lot in the more complex credentials 
  work.
Kerri Lemoie:  .
Kerri Lemoie:  Next.
Kerri Lemoie:  Go ahead use credentials for authorization role 
  assignments and access opportunities so I started this list here 
  link credentials are verified issuers this was already in here we 
  should really look at it I made a note to relook into this then I 
  made sure individual issued itself asserted credentials were on 
  here.
Kerri Lemoie:   And then Guardianship and.
Kerri Lemoie:  Location.
<julien_fraichot> it's on sharepoint
<julien_fraichot> let me see if I can share
Kerri Lemoie:  I'm so sorry I'll go back up here so this is an 
  individual a certain payment of multiple skills or single skills 
  or asserts employment.
Kerri Lemoie:  And then also Guardianship and delegation which we 
  used to talk about at some point and some of the technology needs 
  and I celebrate accessibility out on its own but we can revisit 
  this this is what I was working on before the meeting so 
  basically I'm focusing up in this area right now to take content 
  from these cases that were submitted and get them in here then 
  once that is dead so that I'm hopefully that is done by next 
  Monday and then what we could do those who are willing to work on 
  this just let me.
Kerri Lemoie:   Eno we can start sort of rearranging and adding 
  things that are missing.
<julien_fraichot> do you have an email address I can use Simone?
