[2022-09-20T15:55:21.398Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        present+
[2022-09-20T15:57:06.187Z]        <Andrew_Hughes>        present+
[2022-09-20T15:57:26.501Z]        <Azeem>        present+
[2022-09-20T15:57:34.498Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        present+
[2022-09-20T15:58:31.482Z]        <Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar)>        present+
[2022-09-20T15:58:49.893Z]        <Sharon_Leu>        present+
[2022-09-20T15:59:20.212Z]        <Torsten_Lodderstedt>        present+
[2022-09-20T15:59:20.760Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        present+
[2022-09-20T15:59:24.631Z]        <mprorock>        present+
[2022-09-20T15:59:33.380Z]        <Sergey_Podshivalin>        present+
[2022-09-20T15:59:39.159Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        Hello all!
[2022-09-20T15:59:52.567Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:04.193Z]        <Maarten_Boender>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:04.759Z]        <Lance>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:10.219Z]        <Sam_Curren>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:14.797Z]        <Brian_Campbell>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:16.944Z]        <Mike_Peck>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:17.414Z]        <Andy_Griebel>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:24.243Z]        <Steve_Eisler>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:39.829Z]        <Julie_Keane>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:41.416Z]        <Andrew_Whitehead>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:45.924Z]        <Leo>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:45.962Z]        <Paul_Dietrich_GS1>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:46.617Z]        <Alex>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:50.960Z]        <Ioram_Sette>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:00:55.047Z]        <Niels_Klomp_-_Sphereon>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:01:03.111Z]        <Transcriber>        scribe+
[2022-09-20T16:01:03.111Z]        <Transcriber>        Meeting: weekly
[2022-09-20T16:01:03.867Z]        <Aditya_-_Entrustient>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:01:11.252Z]        <Ian_Davidson>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:01:12.267Z]        <Jon_Featherstone>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:01:14.372Z]        <Si_Shangase>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:01:16.109Z]        <mprorock>        https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Sep/0142.html
[2022-09-20T16:01:19.012Z]        <Jeremie_Miller>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:01:25.091Z]        <TimG>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:01:28.424Z]        <David_Lehn>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:01:29.842Z]        <Julie_Keane>        present
[2022-09-20T16:01:30.483Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Sep/0142.html
[2022-09-20T16:01:32.010Z]        <Jeremie_Miller>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:01:40.990Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Recording is on. Awesome! Hello all and welcome to the weekly CCG meeting. Today we're going to be talking about the JFF Plugfest this coming November, and protocols, and all sorts of fun stuff like that. In addition, we are going to be touching on some open issues that need some feedback in from the community, just to make sure we want to adopt a particular work item. So,
[2022-09-20T16:01:42.177Z]        <TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:01:45.012Z]        <John_Spicer>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:01:45.076Z]        <David_Chadwick>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:01:55.727Z]        <mprorock>        https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/
[2022-09-20T16:02:01.015Z]        <Ivan_(VID)>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:05.429Z]        <James_Chartrand>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:05.957Z]        <Serkan_Kaplan>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:06.730Z]        <Naomi>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:07.095Z]        <Kayode_Ezike>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:09.862Z]        <Brian>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:13.928Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: with that, I'm going to dive into the normal pro forma. So just a quick reminder that this is a W3C meeting, right. This is covered under the code of ethics and professional conduct and I'll put a link to that in the chat. Typically don't have issues with that here, but I just do like to note that right up front. Anyone can participate in these calls, however any and all active
[2022-09-20T16:02:14.499Z]        <Andreas_Abraham>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:14.538Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  contributors to actual work items at the
[2022-09-20T16:02:20.936Z]        <mprorock>        https://www.w3.org/community/credentials/join
[2022-09-20T16:02:31.900Z]        <DavidC>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:34.940Z]        <Marty_Reed>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:37.125Z]        <Alex_mcfarlane>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:46.247Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: CCG does need to be a member of, not of W3C, but of the CCG itself, which does require a W3 account. So if you need that, just go ahead and create that, and then join the community if you want to actually sign our agreement and actually begin contributing to work. These minutes and an audio recording of everything said are archived up on GitHub. We do use the chat, or IRC, which is linked to the chat, to queue speakers so
[2022-09-20T16:02:46.867Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  if you need to add yourself to the queue,
[2022-09-20T16:02:54.198Z]        <Ian_Davidson>        I'm not getting any audio - is that a me issue?
[2022-09-20T16:02:55.270Z]        <Anil_John_[US/DHS/SVIP]>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:56.200Z]        <mprorock>        In IRC type “q+” to add yourself to the queue, with an optional reminder
[2022-09-20T16:02:56.765Z]        <Aditya_-_Entrustient>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:57.292Z]        <Tim_Dutta>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:02:58.103Z]        <John_Kuo>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:03:10.887Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: you type Q+, Q- to pull yourself, etcetera. And if for some reason you don't have access to chat or are unable to type in, just go ahead and unmute and ask to be added to the queue and then we'll get you in. Let me just type a note to Ian that he may need to refresh.
[2022-09-20T16:03:16.406Z]        <mprorock>        @ian you may need to rejoin - or possibly try chrome
[2022-09-20T16:03:28.208Z]        <Ian_Davidson>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:03:29.751Z]        <David_Ward>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:03:46.980Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        Topic: Introductions and Reintroductions
[2022-09-20T16:03:48.070Z]        <Brent>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:03:48.950Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: We are using our robot overlords to scribe and then volunteers to jump in and make any text corrections, if needed. Quick call out for any introductions. I do see some new folks in. I would say let's hold on anyone that Sharon is going to introduce directly when we jump into that topic but
[2022-09-20T16:03:49.340Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  aside from that,
[2022-09-20T16:03:57.917Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: is there anyone new to this call, or new to the community, that would like to introduce themselves. Mr. Paul Dietrich, hello sir!
[2022-09-20T16:03:58.546Z]        <rgrant_Ryan>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:03:58.953Z]        <mprorock>        ack Paul
[2022-09-20T16:04:00.781Z]        <Patrick_Jaberg>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:04:00.845Z]        <Gregory>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:04:04.702Z]        <mprorock>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:04:09.788Z]        <Andrew_Hughes>        q+
[2022-09-20T16:04:11.196Z]        <John_Spicer>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:04:13.133Z]        <kristina>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:04:14.187Z]        <Transcriber>        Paul_Dietrich_GS1: Hi there, Paul Dietrich. I'm from GS1 US. We’re participating under GS1 Global office with Phil Archer. I'm in the Innovation team at the US and have been exploring using verifiable credentials for GS1 licensing. I'm happy to be here participating.
[2022-09-20T16:04:17.287Z]        <Dave_Longley>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:04:29.529Z]        <mprorock>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:04:31.987Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Awesome! It is great to have you and glad to have you on the call, and looking forward to kind of deepening engagement there, and very happy to have you guys jumping right in. And I think today's a fun one to jump into. Andrew Hughes, I see you on the queue.
[2022-09-20T16:04:33.801Z]        <mprorock>        ack Andrew
[2022-09-20T16:04:37.557Z]        <mprorock>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:04:37.674Z]        <John_Kuo>        q+
[2022-09-20T16:04:41.006Z]        <Brent>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:04:46.656Z]        <Jeff_O_-_HumanOS>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:04:48.516Z]        <Naomi>        Good day, Naomi here with Velocity Network Foundation
[2022-09-20T16:04:55.727Z]        <Shawn_Butterfield>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:04:59.752Z]        <Transcriber>        Andrew_Hughes: Hi everyone, thanks! It's been a while since I've been on a CCG call, but I'm the Director of Identity Standards at Ping Identity and deeply involved in the ISO work group for mobile driver's license, where we too are wrestling with protocol and presentation, so happy to hear what's going on, and contribute, and message back and forth.
[2022-09-20T16:05:07.892Z]        <Keith_Kowal>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:05:13.912Z]        <mprorock>        ack John
[2022-09-20T16:05:14.502Z]        <Steph_Correa_(JFF)>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:05:18.119Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Awesome, much appreciated, and very glad to have you on this call, and especially given, I think a strong desire from this community in many who work in this community to see alignment around verifiable credentials, particularly for online use cases. John I see you on the queue.
[2022-09-20T16:05:23.051Z]        <James_Chartrand>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:05:27.588Z]        <Transcriber>        John_Kuo: Hi, I’m John Kuo. I'm a Product Manager for the Pocket Initiative at ASU, which is educational records as VCs.
[2022-09-20T16:05:28.407Z]        <mprorock>        ack Lance
[2022-09-20T16:05:31.496Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Awesome, cool. Lance!
[2022-09-20T16:05:41.573Z]        <Julie_Keane>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:05:46.128Z]        <Kayode_Ezike>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:05:48.488Z]        <Mike_Peck>        q+
[2022-09-20T16:05:53.384Z]        <Transcriber>        Lance: Hey everybody, Lance Byrd from Roots ID. We grew up out of the Cardano and Teleprism identity platform ecosystem, and been involved in trust over IP, DIF, and Aries. And yeah, this is my first CCG. Thanks to Sam Kern for letting me know about it.
[2022-09-20T16:05:54.776Z]        <mprorock>        ack Steve_E
[2022-09-20T16:05:57.256Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Awesome, great to have you! Steve Eisler.
[2022-09-20T16:06:06.142Z]        <bengo>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:06:11.384Z]        <Ashley_Viloria>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:06:13.015Z]        <Transcriber>        Steve_Eisler: Hi everybody, I work for Credivera, a company that's very largely focused on workplace compliance. And we are also entering the VC space here, and yeah, looking forward to collaborating with a lot of you on moving away, moving forward.
[2022-09-20T16:06:13.533Z]        <mprorock>        ack Mike_Pe
[2022-09-20T16:06:16.273Z]        <Naomi_Szekeres>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:06:16.957Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Awesome, great. Mike Peck.
[2022-09-20T16:06:17.524Z]        <mprorock>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:06:19.014Z]        <David_Chadwick>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:06:22.966Z]        <Brent>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:06:36.105Z]        <Transcriber>        Mike_Peck: Hey everyone, I've been lurking here for a little while, happy to join. I come from the K-12 space where I'm a Director of Technology for a public school in the US. Also exploring verifiable credentials and decentralized identity through my work in the Web3 space as a co-founder at Ed3 DAO.
[2022-09-20T16:06:38.838Z]        <mprorock>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:06:42.512Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Excellent, awesome, cool! Any other last intros? I’ll just look at the queue here.
[2022-09-20T16:06:55.963Z]        <mprorock>        https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/233
[2022-09-20T16:06:59.560Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        Topic: Announcements and Work Items
[2022-09-20T16:07:04.792Z]        <Alex_McFarlane>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:07:15.613Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Alright, there is a proposed work item - we did announce this to the list I think two weeks, well, I think it was announced three weeks ago. Two weeks ago we noted just on the agenda for folks to take a look at it. I see a big +1. I think there's support from the chairs as well for this work item, and this is issue #233. The work item in question is to build a DID resolution test suite,
[2022-09-20T16:07:16.533Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: and this is obviously highly valuable.
[2022-09-20T16:07:16.604Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: A lot of good work
[2022-09-20T16:07:17.892Z]        <Kayode_Ezike>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:07:24.406Z]        <Nate_Otto_(he/him)>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:07:25.468Z]        <John_Henderson>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:07:26.936Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues/233
[2022-09-20T16:07:40.211Z]        <Brent>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:07:50.188Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: has already been done to this, including example test reports. There's two owners that are non-conflicting, so it hits all kind of the core requirements as being related to credentials work. You know, having multiple sponsors and folks engaged in it. I'm gonna just watch the queue for a minute to see - does anyone request more time? I think the most I would want to delay this, given the importance of the work and being fact that it's also been discussed and
[2022-09-20T16:07:50.619Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  pretty openly pushed to the list.
[2022-09-20T16:07:55.316Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        +1 to include DID Resolution test suite as a CCG work item
[2022-09-20T16:08:01.246Z]        <Naomi_Szekeres>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:08:17.902Z]        <David_Chadwick>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:08:18.476Z]        <Maarten_Boender>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:08:22.586Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:08:23.401Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Just to see if there's any objection, not necessarily an objection to the work item at this point, but just is there anyone who says “Yep, I need some more time to take a look at this before we officially vote to add it in” and if not, I'm going to run it for just a quick proposal for +1 to indicate support. -1 for no support. 0 for neutral to adopt the work item. So I'm just
[2022-09-20T16:08:23.837Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  going to watch the queue for about 10-15 seconds here
[2022-09-20T16:08:30.394Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: And just see if anyone is jumping in and then I'll type the actual official proposal.
[2022-09-20T16:08:32.341Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:08:48.540Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Alright, cool. I am going to run this proposal now, so hold your +1s and I'll type it out, and we'll get this on the record.
[2022-09-20T16:08:56.061Z]        <mprorock>        PROPOSAL: Adopt DID Resolution Test Suite as a CCG Work Item
[2022-09-20T16:08:58.778Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:00.274Z]        <Shawn_Butterfield>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:01.634Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:02.827Z]        <Alex>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:02.931Z]        <Dave_Longley>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:04.978Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: All right, there's that proposal. +1 if you're in favor, -1 not in favor, 0 for neutrals.
[2022-09-20T16:09:05.580Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:06.414Z]        <Patrick_Jaberg>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:09:08.142Z]        <Brian>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:08.313Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:09.343Z]        <Serkan_Kaplan>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:10.024Z]        <rgrant>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:14.389Z]        <Charles_E._Lehner>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:09:18.493Z]        <Alex_McFarlane>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:21.565Z]        <Brent>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:09:22.410Z]        <Tim_Dutta>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:27.400Z]        <Steve_Eisler>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:27.557Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Alright, I’m going to keep this open for a little bit more and prepare to type a lovely comment into this.
[2022-09-20T16:09:28.388Z]        <Markus_Sabadello>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:09:28.923Z]        <Si_Shangase>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:35.548Z]        <Sharon_Leu>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:09:44.474Z]        <Tim_Dutta>        +
[2022-09-20T16:09:53.806Z]        <Tim_Dutta>        yes
[2022-09-20T16:09:54.614Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: I'm just scanning here. I'm not seeing any non-support, so last chance for anyone to speak up or I'm going to note on the issue that we are adopting it. Tim, I see a plus with nothing. I'm assuming that's a +1.
[2022-09-20T16:09:58.572Z]        <Tim_Dutta>        +1
[2022-09-20T16:10:00.907Z]        <James_Chartrand>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:10:14.071Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: All right, cool. Alright, I am going to close this up and we are going to mark that resolved. So let me just just copy the text so I get it right.
[2022-09-20T16:10:16.256Z]        <mprorock>        RESOLVED: Adopt DID Resolution Test Suite as a CCG Work Item
[2022-09-20T16:10:20.845Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: All right, that is resolved.
[2022-09-20T16:10:28.965Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        Getting zero negative votes in a group of 64 people is an achievement. :P
[2022-09-20T16:10:30.929Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Just taking a note of this in real-time so that it doesn't get lost.
[2022-09-20T16:10:40.818Z]        <cel>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:10:58.241Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:11:02.201Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: So, thanks so much all. I think this is pretty critical from an adoption and a validation standpoint, so very much looking forward to getting this in. And I would say Manu, yes, you have noted correctly. That's about as good as we can get there. So awesome! With that, I am going to move us into the main body of the
[2022-09-20T16:11:02.550Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  topic for today.
[2022-09-20T16:11:02.610Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        q+
[2022-09-20T16:11:10.334Z]        <mprorock>        ack Manu
[2022-09-20T16:11:11.612Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Yeah? Oh, sorry, Sorry about that man.
[2022-09-20T16:11:13.016Z]        <mprorock>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:11:21.912Z]        <tomj>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:11:34.080Z]        <Transcriber>        Manu_Sporny: Hey! Sorry, Mike I had put myself on the - I thought I'd try something with you. Just a real quick heads-up - we need to move RDF Data Set Canonicalization to a final community group specification. And I think this is just me giving notice to the community that we're planning to do a final community group specification soon, and we probably need to do that publication in the next
[2022-09-20T16:11:34.672Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        https://github.com/w3c-ccg/rdf-dataset-canonicalization
[2022-09-20T16:11:34.844Z]        <Transcriber>        Manu_Sporny: couple of weeks. The RDF Data
[2022-09-20T16:11:35.529Z]        <Transcriber>        Manu_Sporny: Set Canonicalization Working Group needs it as a  
[2022-09-20T16:11:41.515Z]        <Transcriber>        Manu_Sporny: work item, so we need to move it over to them. That's it.
[2022-09-20T16:11:52.609Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        q+ about W3C TPAC
[2022-09-20T16:11:56.509Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Great. Thank you, Manu. That's an important call out, and Manu did put the link into the chat there. And yes, we will be on the lookout. Just feel free to email the list when that's ready and we'll hop right on.
[2022-09-20T16:12:06.180Z]        <mprorock>        ack Manu
[2022-09-20T16:12:06.600Z]        <Transcriber>        Harrison_Tang: Oh, and by the way, I also want to give a quick shout-out to [____] for contributing DID [____]
[2022-09-20T16:12:08.371Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Yes, seriously! Thank you, Harrison Manu.. TPAC.
[2022-09-20T16:12:09.963Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        W3C TPAC summary: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Sep/0177.html
[2022-09-20T16:12:31.431Z]        <Transcriber>        Manu_Sporny: Yeah, just real quick. There is a - what happened at W3C TPAC last week - I sent a summary email out to the CCG mailing list on anything that's publicly known. So if you are wondering what happens, there's a link there that that will highlight that stuff. That's it.
[2022-09-20T16:12:39.449Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Thank you, and I appreciate the work on that because that is not trivial to assemble all that and figure out what's AC only, etcetera, so really appreciate that man.
[2022-09-20T16:12:40.605Z]        <Ian_Davidson>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:12:41.970Z]        <mprorock>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:13:01.983Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        Topic: Wallet Protocol and JFF Plugfest #2
[2022-09-20T16:13:07.219Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Cool, just checking queue and not seeing a queue. I am going to hand it over to Sharon to kick things off. And let's start having a fun conversation and moving into protocols and context for the Plugfest and how those are all coming into play and why, etcetera. So Sharon, are you good to start talking?
[2022-09-20T16:13:11.560Z]        <Brent>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:13:26.801Z]        <kristina>        what's the context re CCG also covering DIDs now? re the resolution that just passed
[2022-09-20T16:13:38.196Z]        <Transcriber>        Sharon_Leu: Yeah, I'm going to talk very briefly because I think the person that you want to hear from is not me. So just to those who don't know me, my name is Sharon Leu and I work in an organization called Jobs for the Future and we have the pleasure of facilitating a number of plug tests. Basically, our goal is to ensure that credentials are mobile with individuals and this group, the CCG and the VC Edu Task Force, in particular, are the perfect partners for us in that, essentially for this
[2022-09-20T16:13:38.656Z]        <Transcriber>        Sharon_Leu:  plug test too and I'll drop the link in the chat in just a second.
[2022-09-20T16:13:42.284Z]        <Mahmoud>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:13:50.554Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        Kristina, CCG is where DIDs were incubated
[2022-09-20T16:13:59.021Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        @Kristina - I think it's just the proposal that CCG stewards the DID /resolution/ test suite, that's all
[2022-09-20T16:14:05.761Z]        <mprorock>        @kristina - that resolution is to build out the test suite, so that will be helpful for the next DID working group
[2022-09-20T16:14:12.625Z]        <Transcriber>        Sharon_Leu: What we're saying is that for wallet implementers, they need to show that a verifiable credential issued from two different credential issuers can actually indeed be presented in their wallets. And then on the flip side that credential issuers can issue verifiable credentials into different wallets. And I think the key here is how does the credential get into the wallet? And that is our main question and so what we said is that in order to participate, you have to select from one of the
[2022-09-20T16:14:13.165Z]        <Transcriber>        Sharon_Leu:  the three most common protocols that are used by this community, so
[2022-09-20T16:14:28.312Z]        <Transcriber>        Sharon_Leu: I think I will turn it over to Dmitri to mediate this little discussion about the three different protocols, and how they might be the right one for you.
[2022-09-20T16:14:30.016Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thank you so much.
[2022-09-20T16:14:36.162Z]        <James_Chartrand>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:14:38.750Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: I'm sure no one feels strongly about these things, so this should be a fun conversation. Dmitri, take it away
[2022-09-20T16:14:43.102Z]        <Sharon_Leu>        PlugFest 2: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/plugfest-2-2022/
[2022-09-20T16:14:44.163Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        Kristina, but DID Resolution was incubated in DIF, but then the CCG is handling the test suite :)
[2022-09-20T16:14:55.806Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        (it's complicated) :)
[2022-09-20T16:15:03.741Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Right, exactly? This is no pressure, low stakes. Okay, so time is short. So couple words of contact citing. So Sharon and Jobs for the Future Foundation is sponsoring a open protocol interoperability plugfest the day before IW this November. This this second JFF Plugfest focuses on interoperability between
[2022-09-20T16:15:28.675Z]        <John_Henderson>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:15:35.540Z]        <James_Chartrand>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:15:36.389Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: issuers and wallets. And of course, how do we test interoperability given that within this community and adjacent communities, several many protocols are being developed. We've taken the most active and established in progress protocols, which is W3C CCG’s VC API and credential Handler API as one. Open ID Foundation’s
[2022-09-20T16:15:36.763Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin:  Open ID Connect for credential
[2022-09-20T16:15:45.431Z]        <kristina>        thanks manu
[2022-09-20T16:15:50.375Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: issuance as to you, and then decentralized identities foundations, DIDCOMM presentation exchange, the issuance part of that stack. So,
[2022-09-20T16:15:58.673Z]        <Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:16:21.319Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: in order to demonstrate interoperability, issuers and wallets will need to pick at least one of those three protocol groups and demonstrate inoperability to two different ones. Which, of course, leads to questions from implementers, which profiles of the particular protocol should we support, but that's not what we’re gathered to talk about today. Today, we want to address the development team
[2022-09-20T16:16:21.647Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin:  who are unfamiliar with issuers and protocols,
[2022-09-20T16:16:25.799Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: who are issuers or wallets, that 
[2022-09-20T16:17:01.166Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: are unsure of what to start with. So we invited a representative, champions really, from each of the three API groups to give a brief introduction about that group’s approach to credential issuance, and hopefully say a few words on why the development team would want to choose that particular protocol in general, or for this particular Plugfest. So does that make sense? Are there any
[2022-09-20T16:17:01.495Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin:  questions before we start?
[2022-09-20T16:17:06.862Z]        <mprorock>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:17:13.537Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: I’m watching the queue here, and I think let's just dive right in, Dmitri
[2022-09-20T16:17:14.933Z]        <Serkan_Kaplan>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:17:17.657Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        Feels straight-forward. :)
[2022-09-20T16:17:21.405Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Okay, let's dive right in. I think for the interest of time, let's try to keep it under 10 minutes to each group.
[2022-09-20T16:17:37.903Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: And then hopefully there’ll be time for questions. Evan Lally speaking for the VC API Group, would you be ready to present?
[2022-09-20T16:17:41.579Z]        <kristina>        what are the three? VC-HTTP API, OpenID4VCI and?
[2022-09-20T16:17:43.821Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): Thanks, Dmitri. Yeah, I'm happy to present and I can keep it under 10 minutes. Can you hear me okay?
[2022-09-20T16:17:49.719Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        @Kristina - DIDComm2
[2022-09-20T16:17:52.783Z]        <Alex>        DIDCOMM v2
[2022-09-20T16:17:52.808Z]        <kristina>        ah
[2022-09-20T16:18:16.802Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): Alright, good. So I have a few things to share here, like Dmitri said, I'd like to talk about VC API and also about the combination of VC API and CHAPI, which is the credential Handler API. These two work together to provide a really simple implementation for communicating verifiable credentials out of the web. And when you use CHAPI with VC API, you're working with a protocol that is designed specifically to enable choice
[2022-09-20T16:18:17.207Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar):  and to really facilitate this open ecosystem.
[2022-09-20T16:18:18.980Z]        <Serkan_Kaplan>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:18:35.529Z]        <kristina>        re sharon, OAuth might be a better framing than OIDC (re poll)
[2022-09-20T16:18:50.836Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): and marketplace of different issuers and verifiers involved. So today I'm not going to get too deep into the technical weeds, I will put some email contact information in place if anyone has questions about the protocols themselves, or about implementing these protocols to meet the goals of JFF Plugfest too because that's really what we're here today to talk about is how can we help you to be successful in the Plugfest. So like I said, CHAPI and VC API are really all
[2022-09-20T16:18:51.069Z]        <Nate_Otto_(he/him)>        s/these Capi and chappie/VC-API and CHAPI
[2022-09-20T16:18:51.185Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar):  about providing an open ecosystem that enables consumer
[2022-09-20T16:19:15.213Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): choice and some of the examples we’re going to give are going to focus on issuing credential and storing it in a digital wallet. So just be advised though that the CHAPI and VC API protocol work in many or all of the different use cases that involve communicating verifiable credentials. It's just a little easier to think about it if you focus on something specific.
[2022-09-20T16:19:15.547Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar):  So in this case,
[2022-09-20T16:19:47.682Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): a user is signed up for a digital wallet that is CHAPI enabled, which means that the wallet will register itself with the with the individual’s browser as a credential handler. And this is really at the core of the CHAPI technology. So once the wallet registers itself with the user’s browser as a credential handler, then when any third party site asks to issue
[2022-09-20T16:19:48.058Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar):  or asks to present a verifiable credential,
[2022-09-20T16:20:14.690Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): the browser using a polyfill will present the individual with the choice of which wallet they want to use. And so you can see here how this is designed to facilitate choice because any wallet can register itself with the individual’s browser via this polyfill as a credential handler, and then that while it will show up as a choice, whenever that individual goes to interact with the site.
[2022-09-20T16:20:20.032Z]        <mprorock>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:20:21.215Z]        <Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar)>        https://chapi.io/
[2022-09-20T16:20:22.287Z]        <de_Vaulx_Frederic>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:20:25.453Z]        <cel>        s/chappie/CHAPI/G
[2022-09-20T16:20:47.889Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): There are some examples and developer docs here at CHAPI.io, so I'll paste the link to the site here.There are also some links from CHAPI.io to the relevant W3C community group reports for CHAPI and also for the verifiable credentials API if you want to learn about the details. For issuers, the integration is really simple and you can check out this site here to see some code examples for how to integrate CHAPI and VC API into
[2022-09-20T16:20:48.155Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar):  your issuer code. Each of these examples has a little hyperlink here
[2022-09-20T16:21:06.262Z]        <Anil_John_[US/DHS/SVIP]>        It would be good that to cleanly separate the VC-API (as the credential delivery mechanism to a wallet) from CHAPI (as a wallet selection mechanism) -- with the clear implication that it would be possible to mix and match the delivery protocols (VC API, OIDC4VC etc) w/ CHAPI <shrug>
[2022-09-20T16:21:08.135Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): that will take you to an open source example project, which is an end-to-end project that is hosted here on GitHub pages. And so we're linking you to the source code, but there are also some examples here in the readme for each of these projects. So in this case, this is the issuer and you can go to a demo here.
[2022-09-20T16:21:15.005Z]        <mprorock>        +1 anil
[2022-09-20T16:21:28.904Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        +1 anil
[2022-09-20T16:21:30.547Z]        <kristina>        +1 Anil
[2022-09-20T16:21:34.372Z]        <Dave_Longley>        +1 Anil
[2022-09-20T16:21:41.955Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): If you're working - if you're thinking about using VC API and CHAPI for the Plugfest, we really recommend you hit this big button here at the top of CHAPI.io, and this will take you to a tool in site that we put together called the CHAPI playground. CHAPI playground has four different example verifiable credentials, including this one that we put together from JFF Plugfest 1. And so if I select this example, it will populate the URL here, and then press the Generate Verifiable Credential to use an issuer to
[2022-09-20T16:21:42.468Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar):  generate a fully firm verifiable credential that is being issued
[2022-09-20T16:22:07.393Z]        <kristina>        CHAPI can be usable with OpenID4VCI
[2022-09-20T16:22:14.398Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        Yes, correct.
[2022-09-20T16:22:14.407Z]        <Dave_Longley>        +1 kristina
[2022-09-20T16:22:15.460Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): to a fake DID here. And then if I press the Store in Wallet button, you'll see the CHAPI and VC API workflow, so it pops up the CHAPI polyfill and I've told - looks like in this browser, I've already told that I prefer the Veres wallet, and so it skipped over the selection screen. And then you can see here this is a UI element that is rendered from the wallet in the polyfill. So if you have different wallets, the wallets can provide different functionalities 
[2022-09-20T16:22:15.872Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar):  to the individuals. In this case, showing the details of the
[2022-09-20T16:22:19.588Z]        <Anil_John_[US/DHS/SVIP]>        +1 Kristina
[2022-09-20T16:22:23.269Z]        <mprorock>        +1 Kristina
[2022-09-20T16:22:49.515Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): credential. And then the credential is stored in the digital wallets. So if I go over here to my Veres wallet and refresh it, I should see the credential that I just stored. So this tooling is available to everyone including the participants of the Plugfest. So if you are an issuer, what we can do is work with you to add your issuer backend to be one of the options from the playground so that we can just issue these example credentials straight from your issuer to the
[2022-09-20T16:22:49.751Z]        <Ivan_(VID)>        How it works with a mobile wallet?
[2022-09-20T16:22:49.909Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar):  wallet. Or if you're a wallet we can work with integrating your wallet
[2022-09-20T16:22:56.001Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        so a way to think about the separation is -- 1) CHAPI provides  a Wallet Selector / mediator (which can be used with VC-API, OIDC4VCI etc), 2) VC-API provides the low-level API for a given wallet to talk to issuers/verifiers
[2022-09-20T16:22:57.006Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): with CHAPI and VC API so that you can show the JFF team that you're able to receive one of these example credentials.
[2022-09-20T16:23:03.878Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): I'll put my email address in the chat. If there's any questions, I'm happy to answer them offline or here in the meeting.
[2022-09-20T16:23:08.613Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        q+
[2022-09-20T16:23:09.624Z]        <Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar)>        elally@digitalbazaar.com
[2022-09-20T16:23:14.496Z]        <Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:23:24.868Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        For a mobile wallet, you can click the "Use Native Wallet" button now... and in the future, native wallets will show up in the CHAPI selector... that's on the roadmap, hope to have that integrated within the next couple of months.
[2022-09-20T16:23:35.777Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Excellent. And just watching chat here, I would note that an Anil made a very good point which is that it's possible to mix and match CHAPI and VC API with other things. So don't necessarily assume that one implies the other and vice versa, right? These are things that can be, for instance, CHAPI working with open ID, for instance, as the wallet selection. So there are some options there. Dmitri, I'll hand it back to you there after that Interruption.
[2022-09-20T16:23:49.219Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thanks! And no, not at all. And I just wanted to also address one of the one of the questions in chat from Ivan - which is how would CHAPI or VC API work with the mobile wallet?
[2022-09-20T16:24:02.046Z]        <kristina>        so native apps can only use claimed URLs? ie app/universal links
[2022-09-20T16:24:11.749Z]        <kristina>        ah web share API..
[2022-09-20T16:24:14.120Z]        <Transcriber>        Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar): Yeah, that's great. So there is a native mobile feature in CHAPI and VC API already. I can't show you that workflow right here because I'm using a browser, but you can check it out or feel free to send me an email about it. Happy to walk you through it. It uses the web share API currently and we're working on some improvements now along the lines of what Anil talked about.
[2022-09-20T16:24:22.648Z]        <mprorock>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:24:25.201Z]        <Dave_Longley>        Yes, kristina, that's an upgrade to CHAPI we're working on -- claimed URLs. Right now it uses Web share only.
[2022-09-20T16:24:30.750Z]        <mprorock>        ack Dim
[2022-09-20T16:24:39.144Z]        <mprorock>        ack Dmi
[2022-09-20T16:24:39.332Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thanks, Evan. And to add to that, yeah, to answer Kristina’s question in chat. So the way that the wallet selector works with native mobile apps is to use the web share API. So mobile apps register with the operating system that they support a particular type of credentials. And so you can pass that credentials straight from the CHAPI dialogue to the appropriate mobile app.
[2022-09-20T16:24:39.651Z]        <kristina>        gotch
[2022-09-20T16:24:46.486Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: All right, any other questions before we move on to the next API?
[2022-09-20T16:24:50.381Z]        <Paul_Dietrich_GS1>        Any version info we need for the slugfest?
[2022-09-20T16:25:05.679Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Paul Dietrich in chat is asking any particular version that we need to focus on for the Slugfest?
[2022-09-20T16:25:11.973Z]        <mprorock>        /me likes slugfest so much better than plugfest
[2022-09-20T16:25:21.231Z]        <kristina>        /me LOL
[2022-09-20T16:25:24.300Z]        <Heather_Vescent>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:25:25.166Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: I believe both the credential Handler API and the VC API versions have been relatively stable the last handful of months, so whatever the latest one is on the specs. So for VC API, I believe it's version 3, and whatever the 1.0 CHAPI is.
[2022-09-20T16:25:25.996Z]        <Devi_Prasad>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:25:30.547Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Any other questions?
[2022-09-20T16:25:31.273Z]        <Paul_Dietrich_GS1>        thanks
[2022-09-20T16:25:40.115Z]        <Evan_Lally_(Digital_Bazaar)>        thanks @dmitri -  I've got to run, but @manu is here and much more knowledgeable than me anyway :)
[2022-09-20T16:26:13.041Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Wonderful, thank you so much and yeah, just to reiterate that the the two APIs already mentioned by Evan - the credential Handler and VC API are separable. They handle slightly different aspects of the wallet to assure interaction so they can be mixed and matched with other protocols.
[2022-09-20T16:26:20.268Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Okay. Who do we have from the DIDComm camp today to present?
[2022-09-20T16:26:20.364Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        Thank you, Evan! That was great!
[2022-09-20T16:26:23.620Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: Sam is here for that.
[2022-09-20T16:26:34.926Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Sam, wonderful okay. So Sam, let's hand it over to you to talk about DIDComm. Again, if possible under 10 minutes
[2022-09-20T16:26:44.509Z]        <Dave_Longley>        CHAPI just allows wallet selection -- you can run any protocol after the wallet has been selected. VC-API is one such protocol.
[2022-09-20T16:26:46.776Z]        <mprorock>        NB: this is human in the loop stuff - System to System (e.g. for traceability) is different, though may align with protocols discussed here
[2022-09-20T16:27:02.709Z]        <bumblefudge>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:27:07.714Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: Totally. I'll be brief. There's been previous conversations about DIDComm and so I'll be short on that. Appreciate the invitation, Dmitri, and for putting this together. Quick background on DIDComm, and I've got a slide up here that sort of helps compare it a little bit. But DIDComm itself is a little bit like saying HTTP, in the sense that there's lots of stuff that you can do over HTTP, and there's lots of stuff that you can do over DIDComm. So this is the diagram that we typically use to sort of describe what that looks like when
[2022-09-20T16:27:08.558Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  you're talking between two parties, Two of those protocols, of course, they are the focus here, might be the Issue Credential and Present Proof Protocols
[2022-09-20T16:27:29.284Z]        <kristina>        JWM...
[2022-09-20T16:27:39.988Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: inside that have been built on top of a sort of DIDComm as a foundation. Quickly, here's the the standards that DIDComm, and when I say DIDComm for the duration of the conversation, I'm talking about DIDComm V2 is the focus of the work at the DIF. And so here's the the standards that are that those are based on for the for the various pieces. We've got code libraries in a whole bunch of different languages, and again, this is only the V2 links that are present here for DIDComm V2. And then just quick a example of what this looks like with a library, right. You construct a message,
[2022-09-20T16:28:10.453Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: you know, that has a type and that has attributes to it, and then you pack that for the recipient and transmit it, and then unpack happens as a similar operation. We're not showing, of course, all the exceptions here and what happens if it's been tampered with, or whatever else. But this is the basic sort of main flow that you're going through. So the reason I'm bringing some of the stuff up is because this will help differentiate a little bit between
[2022-09-20T16:28:10.484Z]        <Naomi_Szekeres>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:28:11.047Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  the other approaches and what DIDComm does. The only requirement
[2022-09-20T16:28:11.240Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: for DIDComm
[2022-09-20T16:28:42.648Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: is that you have a DID with an DIDComm endpoint. That doesn't mean the user has to be in front of a screen, although that's common. There's no requirement for hosting infrastructure, so there's really low requirements to make this happen. The other reason why I bring this up is that any protocol that we're talking about here that also communicates DIDs has the potential to integrate and mix-and-match a little bit with DIDComm in the sense that if you start with an interaction via some other API, you discover a DIDComm endpoint on the DID that you're provided in that process. You can of course engage
[2022-09-20T16:28:42.986Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  in DIDComm
[2022-09-20T16:29:13.839Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: interactions after that. And so there's also kind of a nice blend and the integration point is specifically a resolvable DID with a DIDComm endpoint. So here's a good slide, I stole this from Daniel Hardman, and it kind of helps compare a little bit. I list the VC API, HTTP API here. The intention here.. OpenID Connect could have a similarish diagram, not precisely this, because it doesn't rely on exactly the same dependencies but they’re similar. And so this is again
[2022-09-20T16:29:25.239Z]        <Naomi_Szekeres>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:29:38.036Z]        <bumblefudge>        https://identity.foundation/waci-didcomm/
[2022-09-20T16:29:48.776Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: to highlight the difference between the DIDComm spec itself, which is here, and then the stuff on top of it. I've listed WACI here, and I'll talk about that in a second as the WACI DIDComm effort that happened in the DIF as well to produce a narrow as possible profile that can be used for interactions using DIDComm, and also a combination of technologies that have been defined elsewhere. So here's the idea and how to think about it. We say DIDComm generally, we each kind of mean all of this, but the DIDComm spec
[2022-09-20T16:29:49.305Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  itself only specifies this and has nothing to do with credential passing. And then there are defined credential passing
[2022-09-20T16:30:20.567Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: protocols that live on top of that. And so just a little bit of a clarification there. The real magic here is actually that I want to share is the as the WACI DIDComm effort. I cannot take all the credit for this, I was a participant, but there was lots of work done by lots of others. And so the the link to that is here, and it has examples and all the information gathered together in one spot about how to actually make this work and so there
[2022-09-20T16:30:21.222Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  are Presentation Exchange that’s used
[2022-09-20T16:30:40.102Z]        <Shawn_Butterfield>        Is there a link to this presentation? Did I miss that in IRC?
[2022-09-20T16:30:47.569Z]        <mprorock>        https://identity.foundation/waci-didcomm/
[2022-09-20T16:30:53.809Z]        <Naomi_Szekeres>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:30:54.835Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: and good diagrams and demonstrations of what those actually look like. Here's an example of what the service endpoint looks like for a for a DIDComm endpoint, and it did document their - this address is routing, which is how we get around and allow those with smart phones or other consumer-oriented devices to end up as kind of first-class citizens in the exchange here without a need to host API infrastructure or something somewhere
[2022-09-20T16:30:55.428Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  else. And then this talks about the encryption pieces of that, if you’re using a library
[2022-09-20T16:30:56.660Z]        <mprorock>        not sure on a link to the preso
[2022-09-20T16:31:18.727Z]        <mprorock>        but i am sure dmitri will coordinate and get presos posted to the list
[2022-09-20T16:31:23.737Z]        <kristina>        what can be used as an invitation other than a QR code?
[2022-09-20T16:31:26.677Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: that's handled for you. And then the actual flows are described here. QR codes are often used for invitations, and so the path there instead of taking the CHAPI approach with browser involvement or polyfill.. it takes a little bit closer to the open ID approach where it works with browsers, but kind of using regular technologies and not direct involvement from the browsers to make that happen. And so here's the various flows that are here,
[2022-09-20T16:31:27.037Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  an out-of-band message, what
[2022-09-20T16:31:30.921Z]        <Kim_Duffy>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:31:39.441Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        Kim!!!! :)
[2022-09-20T16:31:44.036Z]        <mprorock>        yay!
[2022-09-20T16:32:01.448Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: goes in the QR code ends up looking a little bit more like this. And then here's an example of offering a credential using the issue credential protocol. And so this attachment here is a credential manifest, and so here on is actually not defined necessarily here, but by that other related spec. But this gives you an example and kind of shows you the whole thing in there. And then there's, of course, examples DIDs used in the concept there. So, don't need to walk through the whole thing, but this is the place
[2022-09-20T16:32:01.891Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  to come to if you've got questions and would likely be
[2022-09-20T16:32:11.834Z]        <Kim_Duffy>        what a nice greeting! 👋🏻
[2022-09-20T16:32:27.945Z]        <kristina>        Is there a syntax to request specific credential in DIDComm, or none without Presentation exchange/
[2022-09-20T16:32:29.995Z]        <kristina>        ?
[2022-09-20T16:32:31.269Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: the most appropriate target for something like a Plugfest. Happy to answer - there's lots of other stuff going on in various communities, but that's probably part of another conversation. I am TelegramSam on all the socials, or telegramsam@gmail.com, if you would like to reach out and ask questions or ways that I can help. And that's my summary. Any questions, or are we holding questions to the end?
[2022-09-20T16:32:34.598Z]        <kristina>        (Hi, Kim!)
[2022-09-20T16:33:02.421Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thank you so much, Sam. We’ll take a couple of questions right now. I just want to add to - so again, first of all, thank you so much for coming by to present on this. So specifically for JFF Plugfest, the protocol, one of the three protocols that we’re supporting and asking people to potentially implement, is specifically the one that Sam mentioned here - the WACI DIDComm. So
[2022-09-20T16:33:02.910Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin:  the wallet issuing part
[2022-09-20T16:33:20.516Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: of that stack. There was, I believe, there was a question from Kristina about invitations other than QR codes, and then another question about -  is there syntax to request specific credential in DIDComm?
[2022-09-20T16:33:45.475Z]        <Mahesh_Balan_-_pocketcred.com>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:33:52.470Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: Yes, so let me attempt those, and I stopped sharing so that I can see the chat. You can also use a link that has the same data that's in the QR code, but it's presented in a link for them in order to pass an invitation. The other thing is that the invitation’s only needed if you don't already know the DID of the other party. If you happen to know the DID of the other party, then you just send a message. There's not really an invitation step needed there.
[2022-09-20T16:33:53.347Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: And so, that's just - you know if I walk up or I'm
[2022-09-20T16:33:53.491Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: interacting with a system that I
[2022-09-20T16:33:54.529Z]        <Dave_Longley>        Note about how CHAPI works: Any "invitation link" (any URL for any protocol) could be passed through CHAPI so the user can select any wallet they've registered with their browser.
[2022-09-20T16:33:57.196Z]        <mprorock>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:34:21.458Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        In other words, CHAPI can support a DIDComm introduction as well (if there was interest in doing that)
[2022-09-20T16:34:25.240Z]        <mprorock>        +1 Dave - there are some nifty things you can do with that for wallet selection
[2022-09-20T16:34:26.506Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: haven't been interacting with and that can make it easier. The protocol to support a specific credential, yes, so Presentation Exchange is one of those. There are other formats depending on the types of credentials you're actually requesting. For example, there's a anoncrypt specific one if you're working with anoncrypt credentials, but the protocol itself doesn't define those. Those are defined by the other formats that are
[2022-09-20T16:34:26.972Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  being pased. So Presentation Exchange is really good one to use
[2022-09-20T16:34:35.738Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: for lots of generic purposes. But the DIDComm protocols themselves don't actually have an opinion about what credential is passed inside of them.
[2022-09-20T16:34:36.108Z]        <kristina>        does DIDComm define how to return the credential? guess no
[2022-09-20T16:34:39.177Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: So all the credential types work.
[2022-09-20T16:34:54.571Z]        <Aditya_-_Entrustient>        Are connections necessary in WACI-DIDComm for issuance of credential and Is the WACI DIDComm interoperable with Aries? The protocols look very similar.
[2022-09-20T16:35:08.525Z]        <mprorock>        didcomm itself is broadly transparent to payloads which can be nice
[2022-09-20T16:35:13.243Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: It defines how to return the credential, but not what the credential format is. I'm answering Kristina’s question in chat. So it comes back in a payload that says “here is the credential”, but it does not define, of course, the details about what is inside the credential format itself. So whether you're turning a JSON credential or a JWT credential or an anoncrypt, those all pass back in the same message as part of that. So it definitely does define how to return the message, but not the details of what's inside the messages itself,
[2022-09-20T16:35:13.891Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  or the - sorry the credentials itself.
[2022-09-20T16:35:13.973Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  Are connections necessary in
[2022-09-20T16:35:17.673Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: WACI DIDComm issuance and
[2022-09-20T16:35:51.189Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: is the WACI DIDComm interoperable with Aries? So there were, a lot came - so DIDComm itself came from Aries, so the fact that there's some stuff that looks similar there is normal. There is planned efforts there. The completion of the DIDComm 2 spec landed and it's a slightly inconvenient time for the Aries community in that they are already engaged in the pursuit of AIP 2.0, which is their interoperability profile within the area's community. And so it will be,
[2022-09-20T16:35:51.414Z]        <mprorock>        aries framework go is not a bad way to start down interop and common support across differing profiles based on our experience
[2022-09-20T16:35:51.633Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  and there are some of the Aries projects that already have it, but there is not 
[2022-09-20T16:35:51.751Z]        <Alex>        I noticed that the issuance credential contains a credential manifest but while looking at the issuance on OIDCv4 there is no mention of a manifest. How do those interpolate?
[2022-09-20T16:36:01.500Z]        <kristina>        I mean, is it a general DIDComm message that includes a returned credential, how does a verifier know how to understand the payload?
[2022-09-20T16:36:15.302Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: entirely universal support for that. There will be in the future, but there isn't now, mostly because of an accident of the timelines and that community sort of already being engaged in an effort. The next effort will definitely involve a transition to DIDComm too, and also all of the all the associated changes that make WACI support nearly automatic.
[2022-09-20T16:36:18.917Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: Okay, I'm losing track of questions here.
[2022-09-20T16:36:37.319Z]        <kristina>        yeah, I would imagine DIDComm for issuance is Credential manifest and not Presentation Exchange? (they are complementary, sure..)
[2022-09-20T16:36:37.495Z]        <Niels_Klomp_-_Sphereon>        OIDC4CI doesn't use Credential Manifest AFAIK, rigth Kristina?
[2022-09-20T16:36:41.334Z]        <kristina>        nope
[2022-09-20T16:36:46.991Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: No problem, no problem. We can save subsequent questions for after the Odyssey group goes. My clarification question is - would you say there's a large overlap between WACI DIDComm and the Aries protocol? If a team is familiar with Aries, they should have any problem supporting WACI DIDComm, is that correct?
[2022-09-20T16:37:10.410Z]        <kristina>        we have a simple syntax how issuer publishes what credential type/format/display info it supports in its metadata
[2022-09-20T16:37:21.066Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: There is a large overlap if they're not already using like the Credential Manifest and Presentation Excange stuff, then that will be a little bit of extra work, but yes it's very similar. The other differentiator that I wanted to mention if you're choosing between which one you want to support for the Plugfest is that DIDComm is not designed as a browser oriented interaction, or an interaction that requires you to be present in the sense that you're in an open ID connect exchange. It does similar things to those, but one of the differentiating
[2022-09-20T16:37:21.732Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  factors is that once you have a connection, you can send a message over that connection at any time. So if you
[2022-09-20T16:37:22.005Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: previously exchanged a credential with
[2022-09-20T16:37:56.727Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: a party, for example, and you would like to request a new credential of a new type or an updated one, for example, then that can be done directly via DIDComm and not necessarily have to be done with an interaction through, you know, involving a browser or something similar. So that's probably the biggest differentiator. Again, there's lots of overlap there but because of the protocol oriented nature of the thing, it works well for that. So my comment there applies specifically to mobile wallets.
[2022-09-20T16:37:57.297Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren:  The protocols do, of course, support web wallets but just as a point of
[2022-09-20T16:38:20.196Z]        <mprorock>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:38:21.382Z]        <Transcriber>        Sam_Curren: differentiation, the ability to reach out at a future time using those protocols when the user may not be in front of the same screen or in front of a computer at all, but just have their mobile device is one way to make that happen. And I know that that's not a pure differentiator, there's other features there as well. I'm not trying to start a feature war discussion, but that's something that if you're interested in it, then it might be worth your attention.
[2022-09-20T16:38:38.011Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thank you so much, Sam. All right, let's move over to OpenID Connect, and then we'll take questions to the three presenters in general. So who will be presenting for OpenID Connect Verifiable Credential issuance?
[2022-09-20T16:38:42.327Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: That will be I, Torsten Lodderstedt.
[2022-09-20T16:38:43.650Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Wonderful. Take it away, Torsten.
[2022-09-20T16:38:48.134Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: I have to be - yeah, can you see my screen?
[2022-09-20T16:38:53.226Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: Okay, so I'm just unfamiliar with the tool, so bear with me.
[2022-09-20T16:39:12.664Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: Alright, hello everybody, my name is Torsten. I've got a pleasure to be one of the co-authors of the OpenID Connect Verifiable Credentials Protocol family. With me, I think today, is Kristina Yasuda and David Chadwick. David, are you here as well?


David_Chadwick: Yes, I’m here.


[2022-09-20T16:39:25.597Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: Doesn't seem to be the case. All right, so can you see the — 


David_Chadwick: Yes, I am here.


[2022-09-20T16:39:30.727Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: We do have David, thank you, go ahead.
[2022-09-20T16:39:36.020Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: Okay, so David, just one question for orchestration purposes, do you want to show you your demo?


David_Chadwick: I will show the tools that we have got ready for people to use, which is similar to what the first demonstration did, yes.


[2022-09-20T16:39:42.870Z]        <bumblefudge>        (bit a delay-- sharks chewing on the transatlantic wire perhaps)
[2022-09-20T16:39:44.996Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        DavidC: I wil show the tools we have ready
[2022-09-20T16:39:58.126Z]        <mprorock>        we can hear you fine david
[2022-09-20T16:40:01.377Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        oh nooo, I think we have a network partition - Torsten can't hear DavidC
[2022-09-20T16:40:11.973Z]        <mprorock>        a missing oauth scope
[2022-09-20T16:40:17.125Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: Okay, I can't hear you. All right, so let's get started. So the OpenID for Verifiable Credential issuance is one initiative that is conducted at the OpenID Foundation in cooperation with the Decentralized Identity Foundation. And what we do is we define a set of protocols that can be used for different interfaces that are relevant to decentralized identity. So we've got the presentation side of things, where we have OpenID for verifiable presentations, and self-issued OP v2 and we’ve
[2022-09-20T16:40:18.225Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: the issue on site, which we will be focusing on today which is
[2022-09-20T16:40:18.364Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: obviously a way
[2022-09-20T16:40:22.857Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: to issue credentials into a wallet
[2022-09-20T16:40:27.805Z]        <Niels_Klomp_-_Sphereon>        split brain situation @dimitri ;)
[2022-09-20T16:40:53.852Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: So the protocol supports three different kinds of user experiences that I briefly will show you. First of all we've got two different experiences that are issuer initiated, so let's assume a user visits a site, for example, does a test and then obtains a credential afterwards. And in that case, if it's on the same device, the credential can directly be downloaded to the wallet. If the same happens on different devices, then we support a
[2022-09-20T16:41:27.765Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: QR based approach, where the user can scan a QR code and then download the request and receive the credential on a different phone. So downloading might be a wrong term because in the end, what's going to happen is a challenge response protocol that also makes sure that the wallet and the user is in possession of a certain cryptographic key that in the end is used for cryptographic holder proof of possession. And we've got the third kind of
[2022-09-20T16:41:28.328Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  user experience which can start in the wallet, either after scanning a
[2022-09-20T16:41:45.005Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: QR code or processing a presentation request, or just by browsing through the wallet where the wallet can kick start the process and reach out to the issuer and request authorization to get a credential.
[2022-09-20T16:42:17.928Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: From a technical standpoint, OpenID for verifiable credential issuance is a OAuth-authorized or protected API, so the credential issue exposes an HTTP based API and all the security around it might be the user authentication consent for credential issuance and other stuff is being done using OAuth. So how that happens is quite simple. So first of all, the wallet sends an authorization request on behalf of the user to
[2022-09-20T16:42:18.341Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  the credential issuer which specifies which kind of credential it wants to obtain
[2022-09-20T16:42:51.925Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: And after the issuer has, for example, authenticated the user and request and gathered consent, the credential issuer as an authorization server issue of access token, this is when the vanilla OAuth stuff. If there is a long-term connection, the credential issuer might also issue a refresh token, which is pretty interesting because that allows to, for example, refresh credentials in a very pragmatic way. So you can issue short term
[2022-09-20T16:42:52.358Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  credentials and then from time to time, for new credentials,
[2022-09-20T16:42:52.437Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: you can also
[2022-09-20T16:43:26.373Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: request the authorization to obtain a credential and then obtain that credential in different formats, because the open ID for verifiable credential issuances is credential format agnostic, so we want to support a variety of credential formats going forward. And then there is the actual credential issuance API. This is an OAuth protected endpoint, a resource [___] of terminology. And the wallet uses the access token and
[2022-09-20T16:43:27.138Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  directly requests the credential. With that request also comes things like the 
[2022-09-20T16:43:27.561Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: proof of possession for the key material for the cryptographic holder binding
[2022-09-20T16:43:40.227Z]        <kristina>        wallet sends the request to the Issuer, wallet may already know which issuer, which credential type (wallet initiated); or it might get that idea from the initiate issuance request (issuer initiated flow)
[2022-09-20T16:43:40.736Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: And in response, the credential issuer issues a credential, or perhaps also multiple credentials - we are working on better issuance as well.
[2022-09-20T16:43:41.260Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  So the design principles are, as I said, it’s
[2022-09-20T16:43:53.095Z]        <Alex>        How does the credential manifest fit in here? Is it optional in transaction 0 ?
[2022-09-20T16:44:01.741Z]        <kristina>        credential manifest is not used
[2022-09-20T16:44:16.486Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: a simple OAuth protected endpoint. We leverage all the different flows that exists in the OAuth universe and all the packages that exist, including the different methods for securing all this authorization flows. We have defined a new code, a new pre-authorized code flow for some of the user experiences that can be found in the decentralized world, but nicely fits into the OAuth framework. OAuth Open ID for verifiable credential
[2022-09-20T16:44:17.250Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  issuance is credential format agnostic so can be used with hyperledger credentials.
[2022-09-20T16:44:33.102Z]        <James_Chartrand>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:44:52.595Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: With verifiable credentials, JSON-LD based, JWT based, with ISO mDL with [_____] credentials, and that also requires us to support different kinds of proof of possession for key material - which we do. If a wallet wants to know what the issuer’s capabilities are, there is a metadata facility which we in the end, derive, from the OAuth OpenID metadata facility that can be used to exactly determine this kind of information.
[2022-09-20T16:44:53.322Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  So let me quickly run you through a quick example
[2022-09-20T16:45:13.615Z]        <kristina>        the same access token (symbolizing user consent) can be used to issue same credential of multiple formats (W3C VC and ISO mDL for example) or bind the same credential format to different key (mulitple DIDs)
[2022-09-20T16:45:25.395Z]        <mprorock>        +1 Kristina
[2022-09-20T16:45:28.151Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: So this is a request for a wallet that request authorization to request a credential of type open batch credential. This is all vanilla OAuth and when the issuer is done processing the authorization request, the wallet gets the code that it changes for an access token, and that access token, which is shown here in that in that part of the message, is sent to the HTS, a protected API.
[2022-09-20T16:45:28.863Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  So we've got a couple of parameters, 
[2022-09-20T16:45:29.320Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: first of all, the type, which is open batch credential. Then we determine
[2022-09-20T16:46:01.231Z]        <mprorock>        that multi format / binding behaviour may be of help when bridging mDL to VCs
[2022-09-20T16:46:04.986Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: the format. In this case, it's LDP_VC, which means it's a LD proof. We want to bind to credential to a DID key and, we also have a JWS object that is the proof of possession of the private key corresponding to that date. So that's basically it is. And then as a result, what we get is a response which determines the format. No surprise, that's LDP_VC and we've got the credential, which can be,
[2022-09-20T16:46:05.826Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  which must be, of the format that they decline.
[2022-09-20T16:46:13.871Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: And here we are, that's the credential that was issued which is a open batch credential.
[2022-09-20T16:46:23.367Z]        <kristina>        if you have an existing OAuth infrastructure, the minimum is to add a new credential endpoint, if you are using scopes to request a certain credential (which allows even large scale systems like msft to move to this model)
[2022-09-20T16:46:48.169Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: So, why should you consider to use Open ID for verifiable credentials? There are a couple of reasons for that. First of all, it leverages the simplicity and security of OAuth. I mean, OAuth is successful because it is secure and it is simple to use, and there are tons of libraries available in all kinds of programming languages. And we are basing on that. Second, the protocol works for all kinds of wallets, so could be a native app, could be a webapp,
[2022-09-20T16:46:48.867Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  it can be something hybrid. There are [_____]
[2022-09-20T16:46:50.470Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        @kristina - does that mean that the issuance initiation endpoint is optional?
[2022-09-20T16:46:55.094Z]        <kristina>        yes
[2022-09-20T16:46:56.327Z]        <Dave_Longley>        How are the acceptable cryptosuites for the DID proof expressed? (not vc-jwt vs. ldp, but rather ... Ed25519Signature2020 or JsonWebSignature2020, etc.)
[2022-09-20T16:47:11.761Z]        <kristina>        for the issuer, issuer metadata
[2022-09-20T16:47:20.992Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: that are more advanced implementations that utilize our protocol [_____]. And if you want to implement it, you can use the OAuth of your choice, and there are plenty of them available. All it needs is, in addition to the OAuth library, you need to set up the HTS protective endpoint to actually, in this symmetric fashion, process the credential issuance request and reduce the response. And if you happen to have an existing OAuth or OpenID deployment, it’s even simpler, and then you can
[2022-09-20T16:47:29.304Z]        <mprorock>        +1 Kristina - this also maps well to the system to system use cases at scale we see in supply chain that are alos leveraging oauth and scopes in a similar manner
[2022-09-20T16:47:37.327Z]        <Dave_Longley>        how easily can you separate the authz server from the issuer server?
[2022-09-20T16:47:45.238Z]        <kristina>        very easy
[2022-09-20T16:47:45.777Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        @kristina - what about for the wallet? (how does the wallet specify which crypto suite it prefers to receive?)
[2022-09-20T16:47:56.360Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: more or less, add the new endpoint to that deployment and use your existing infrastructure to authorize access and even use the existing identity data to turn your OpenID OP into a credential issue, which we think is a key success factor because credentials needs to be minted from parties that already have identity data, and so I think this is a way to really foster adoption of the decentralized identity principles. The protocol itself
[2022-09-20T16:47:57.221Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  does not have a certain selection or discovery mechanism. It works
[2022-09-20T16:48:05.572Z]        <Alex>        Can you do selective disclosure using BBS+ signatures?
[2022-09-20T16:48:15.728Z]        <kristina>        in microsoft's implementation, we use existing authz endpoints that deal with billions of transactions and for the issuance, building a new endpoint
[2022-09-20T16:48:16.658Z]        <Sam_Curren>        Yes
[2022-09-20T16:48:17.843Z]        <mprorock>        easily speperable, and also easy to get support plugged into existing oauth services
[2022-09-20T16:48:29.393Z]        <Dave_Longley>        does the issuer server or the authz check the DID proof? ... if the issuer server, does it also function as an authz server by serving authz server metadata RFC8414?
[2022-09-20T16:48:29.716Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: with all kinds of those mechanisms. So, for example, you can use custom schemes which works well along a, across a cohort of native wallets. You can have selectors, you can have something like CHAPI, so you can combine it with whatever is needed and there are different examples deployed in the wild. One other thing that I would like to emphasize is that due to the way that
[2022-09-20T16:48:30.260Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  OAuth works and OpenID works,
[2022-09-20T16:48:36.600Z]        <kristina>        @dmitri, for the wallet depends on the chooser mechanism
[2022-09-20T16:48:47.712Z]        <kristina>        @dave, issuer server
[2022-09-20T16:49:04.286Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: there is a lot of flexibility how you are construct the design the user interaction at the issuance site, because you've got the full user interface control, can authenticate the user, can do whatever you want and need to gather user consent, and so on the protocol works for same device and cross-device scenario, and it supports different security levels. We have recently been working on design options for really substantial and high security levels, which are required for example, for regulated
[2022-09-20T16:49:04.816Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  schemes like eIDAS, but a simple security level work as well.
[2022-09-20T16:49:30.473Z]        <kristina>        @dave currently, issuer server's metadata is being published in the authz server metadata
[2022-09-20T16:49:39.013Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: And as I said, it's credential format crypto suite agnostic, so if you once you have implemented it in your issuer, it's easy to support different kind of credential formats because in my opinion, that's important because this market is so emerging and there are so different approaches on the way, it's good to have that option in the pocket. There are couple of implementations already underway, and I will also like to mention that ISO has decided to adopt that for
[2022-09-20T16:49:39.704Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt:  a couple of their standards in the world of digital identity
[2022-09-20T16:49:50.990Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: credentials. And with that, I'm through with my slide deck. If time permits,
[2022-09-20T16:50:07.607Z]        <Niels_Klomp_-_Sphereon>        yes
[2022-09-20T16:50:07.700Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: One quick kind of chair question with the ISO note there, would this potentially then provide a path for use of mDL and verifiable credentials, say for dual issuance cut type scenarios, or bridging mDL over to verifiable credentials where required?
[2022-09-20T16:50:23.602Z]        <Dave_Longley>        @kristina - so would that perhaps be separable in the future? it seems that the issuer should be responsible for generating the challenge nonce and expiration period since it will be checking the DID proof it is used in (not the authz server)
[2022-09-20T16:50:40.009Z]        <Transcriber>        kristina: Yeah, so there are already implementations emerging where people are using a [_____] product which issues ISO mDL format credential and [_____] for CVC. So that is possible on the issuer’s side. On the presentation, depends on the choices that [_____] will make in the near future, but there is really high probability we can enable a path where the same presentation response can include those ISO mDL and [_____] VC
[2022-09-20T16:50:40.027Z]        <bumblefudge>        Inshallah!
[2022-09-20T16:50:40.307Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        q+ to be doubtful about saying "Yeah" to merging mDL/VC protocols.
[2022-09-20T16:50:40.689Z]        <Transcriber>        kristina: if we are successful.
[2022-09-20T16:50:51.652Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: All right, may I, can I run you quickly through the demo? Just takes a minute or so
[2022-09-20T16:50:58.650Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Yes, if you don't mind real quick, since I think there's more questions. Go ahead
[2022-09-20T16:51:00.785Z]        <Shawn_Butterfield>        +1 to this approach... Using OAuth to bootstrap the interaction is extremely valuable for enterprises with identity walled gardens. Allows for a much smoother transition to decentralized trust infra.
[2022-09-20T16:51:09.494Z]        <kristina>        manu: yes, it is not easy and hence big caveat "if we are successful" :D
[2022-09-20T16:51:10.111Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: Okay, so let's assume I'm in my wallet. In this case, it's a web wallet
[2022-09-20T16:51:21.595Z]        <Dave_Longley>        +1 to ensuring authz and issuing servers in OIDC4VCI can be cleanly separated (i think there's more work to be done there, but it's a really important goal)
[2022-09-20T16:51:25.348Z]        <mprorock>        chair hat off: +1 to this approach - and mesur.io plans to add support
[2022-09-20T16:51:42.477Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: So I don't have the credential in my wallet now. I request a credential, in this case, the wallet offers me several issuers. I mean, it's a bit similar to what we have seen in the first presentation. So we already know some of the issuers, and then I'm being sent to the issuer. And this is a simple standard OAuth authorization request, as you might see from the URL. And I'm logging in to the site and I
[2022-09-20T16:51:43.341Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: confirm the issuance of
[2022-09-20T16:51:43.736Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: the credential. That's not a particular nice 
[2022-09-20T16:51:54.016Z]        <mprorock>        that is for human in the loop use cases for us
[2022-09-20T16:52:07.546Z]        <Transcriber>        Torsten_Lodderstedt: screen, but it's a prototype. And you’ll see that's everything, so I went through the authorization process, the wallets get an access token and obtained the credential, and then I accept that credential, and that's it, right? So that's how easy as it can look. And with that, I'm done with my presentation.
[2022-09-20T16:52:16.041Z]        <Shawn_Butterfield>        Shortest demo ever. Love that.
[2022-09-20T16:52:16.046Z]        <Niels_Klomp_-_Sphereon>        If you ask me without going into politics of SSI, the integration into OID allows for far easier adoption in existing enterprise systems
[2022-09-20T16:52:35.137Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        q-
[2022-09-20T16:52:36.482Z]        <Anil_John_[US/DHS/SVIP]>        It feels as though the metadata created by the issuer is distributed across multiple locations (did document, revocation status info, OIDC stuff etc.) Given that DID resolution provides a cross-network mech for mapping the identifier of an issuer to a did document.. Would it make sense to consolidate the location long term (i.e. target of resolution(
[2022-09-20T16:52:38.904Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Wonderful, thank you so much. So we're eight minutes till the top of the hour. I’ve got a lot to go through. In the interest of time, we usually repeat the questions asked in chat, but in this case we're going to skip them. So those of you who are joining in voice only, please take a look at the chat transcript afterwards to make sure you haven't missed the questions for the OpenID connect group. I want to say a couple more words and then hand over to.
[2022-09-20T16:52:39.217Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin:  Sharon to to talk about
[2022-09-20T16:52:42.944Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:52:55.906Z]        <mprorock>        Chair Note: please do feel free to engage on list to keep things rolling and deep dive on various items
[2022-09-20T16:52:58.315Z]        <DavidC>        q+
[2022-09-20T16:53:10.778Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: JFF next steps. I see there's Manu in the queue, so before before we go over to Manu, I want to mention that - so thank you so much to all three presenters for coming and talking about API stacks. Developers who are unsure which protocols to implement, please direct questions to the either the CCG public mailing list or the
[2022-09-20T16:53:11.033Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin:  VC EDU, preferably,
[2022-09-20T16:53:20.222Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: public mailing list. Certainly your questions will generate no drama or or dissenting opinions
[2022-09-20T16:53:22.885Z]        <Aditya_-_Entrustient>        Is there a playground available for OpenID connect? And should we be using SIOPV2 as a guide?
[2022-09-20T16:53:34.192Z]        <Naomi_Szekeres>        present+
[2022-09-20T16:53:40.938Z]        <Kayode_Ezike>        s/CC EDU/VC-EDU/
[2022-09-20T16:53:43.718Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        VC-EDU Listserv: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/
[2022-09-20T16:53:50.563Z]        <kristina>        please think of OpenID4VCI differently from SIOPv2/OpenID4VP side
[2022-09-20T16:53:51.267Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Reminder to implementers that all three protocol stacks allow for DID authentication. And that is something that we will be requiring at the JFF Plugfest. So CHAPI and the VC API, which we didn't get - go into too much detail here, besides pointing out that it's there and it's separable from credential handler API. I urge you to look into the details on your own. But credential handler API and
[2022-09-20T16:53:51.643Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin:  CHAPI provides for DID
[2022-09-20T16:54:13.249Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: authentication. WACI DIDComm has a mechanism for DID Auth, and then OpenID Connect for VC issuance has a mechanism for DID Auth. So when you pick a protocol, that will determine your method of DID authentication, which we will be looking for at JFF.
[2022-09-20T16:54:17.490Z]        <kristina>        Issuance using OAuth does not have the limitations of turning user's native app into an authorization server :)
[2022-09-20T16:54:36.295Z]        <Kayode_Ezike>        s/chappie/CHAPI
[2022-09-20T16:54:44.210Z]        <kristina>        @Adytya working on, conformance test suite for OpenID4VC
[2022-09-20T16:54:46.005Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: As Kristina mentions in chat, the OpenID connect family of protocols are three separate protocols. So there's separately self issued OpenID Connect, there is OpenID Connect for VC issuance, which is what was presented today, and then there's a separate one, OpenID Connect for presentation, which is something that incidentally that the JFF Plugfest 3 will be testing. Okay, any other quick questions before we
[2022-09-20T16:54:46.376Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin:  hand it over to Sharon?
[2022-09-20T16:54:49.106Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:55:16.195Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        DavidC: Just to show tools that are available via NGIAtlantic, profile for OIDC, web pages for people to join details and tools to help them.
[2022-09-20T16:55:26.885Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Wonderful, thank you so much. In case we run out of time to show the tools, can you paste the URLs to the tools in chat here for people to investigate. Thank you so much
[2022-09-20T16:55:29.635Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Any other questions?
[2022-09-20T16:55:30.197Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        DavidC: Yes, I'll paste the URL.
[2022-09-20T16:55:30.886Z]        <Aditya_-_Entrustient>        @kristina - Thank you. Can I use OpenID4VCI to package requests from Aries?
[2022-09-20T16:55:43.251Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: All right, Sharon, if you want to say a few words about next steps and deadlines
[2022-09-20T16:55:53.091Z]        <mprorock>        handing things over to Harrison as I am at a hard stop - really appreciate the time from everyone today - this is an awesome topic
[2022-09-20T16:56:16.254Z]        <Transcriber>        Sharon_Leu: Great, thank you all for such a great presentation. I feel like all of the questions are answered and everyone knows exactly what they're supposed to do, right? Perfect, because the deadline to choose a protocol for your participation in Plugfest 2 is September 30th, end of the day, whatever your time zone is. So I think that everyone has gotten an email from us about how to do the “selection”, which just basically updates a Google spreadsheet. There
[2022-09-20T16:56:16.733Z]        <Transcriber>        Sharon_Leu:  continue to be technical questions, which I'm sure there are. The people to answer that
[2022-09-20T16:56:22.560Z]        <Manu_Sporny>        hahaha :P -- yes, the path forward is crystal clear :P
[2022-09-20T16:56:35.270Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        @manu - hahahaha glad to clarify! :)
[2022-09-20T16:56:48.081Z]        <Transcriber>        Sharon_Leu: are available on the VC EDU mailing list, so please definitely subscribe to that. Send an email to public-vc.edu and put the word “subscribe” in the headline, I guess the same way that you do any other listserv, and ask your questions there. So I think that's it, September 30th. Part of why we have September 30th as the deadline is cecause unless you select a protocol, it's very difficult for you to find partners with, you know,
[2022-09-20T16:56:48.494Z]        <Transcriber>        Sharon_Leu: who to test your
[2022-09-20T16:57:01.065Z]        <DavidC>        https://idp.research.identiproof.io/ for wallets to test OIDC. It works for cloud wallets, same device smart wallets and cross device smart wallets
[2022-09-20T16:57:05.097Z]        <Transcriber>        Sharon_Leu: interoperability with, and the deadline for that will be the following week after that. So yeah, let us know if you have any additional questions or want some technical assistance. But look forward to working with everyone again and thank you all for your time
[2022-09-20T16:57:24.392Z]        <DavidC>        You need to enter the un: user and the pw: password to authenticate to the site
[2022-09-20T16:57:32.463Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thank you so much, Sharon. So, again if you have questions about protocol choice, please post on the mailing list. Your next task as implementers is to decide in protocol and find interoperability partners, meaning if you're issuers, you're going to need to find wallets. If you’re a wallet provider, you're going to need to find issuers other than your own to test with.
[2022-09-20T16:57:39.082Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: I believe that's it. Harrison, over to you.
[2022-09-20T16:57:44.982Z]        <Transcriber>        Harrison_Tang: Thank you. Thank you, Dmitri, thank you, Sharon, and thank you to all the presenters. Any other questions?
[2022-09-20T16:57:46.190Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:57:55.450Z]        <Transcriber>        Harrison_Tang: David, I see you’re on the queue, but you probably already made that announcement, right?
[2022-09-20T16:57:56.442Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        ack davidc
[2022-09-20T16:57:58.643Z]        <kristina>        @Aditya, why would you do that..? package Aries req?
[2022-09-20T16:58:01.614Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Go ahead, David.


David_Chadwick: Yeah, that was it. And we've got 2 minutes I can give a quick demo. It’ll only take 2 minutes.


[2022-09-20T16:58:10.473Z]        <Transcriber>        Harrison_Tang: Sounds good, we do have two minutes, so please do.
[2022-09-20T16:59:01.739Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        q?
[2022-09-20T16:59:17.915Z]        <Torsten_Lodderstedt>        need to leave for the next meeting - thanks a lot for the opportunity to present our work
[2022-09-20T16:59:20.454Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        thanks everyone for attending, and for your excellent questions. We realize that this is a difficult topic that's hard to fully cover in 10 mins each, we encourage you to ask follow-up questions.
[2022-09-20T16:59:32.270Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        thank you, Torsten, for sharing
[2022-09-20T16:59:42.248Z]        <Dmitri_Zagidulin>        thanks Torsten!
[2022-09-20T16:59:56.627Z]        <Sharon_Leu>        thank you, torsten!
[2022-09-20T16:59:57.928Z]        <Aditya_-_Entrustient>        @kristina - Create Out of band credentials using Aries and use OpenID4VCI to transfer to a holder?
[2022-09-20T17:00:19.416Z]        <Niels_Klomp_-_Sphereon>        I wouldn't see why that wouldn't be possible
[2022-09-20T17:00:28.801Z]        <rgrant_Ryan>        thx everyone


David_Chadwick: Okay. Right, great. I'll try and share my screen. Okay, see if that works. Okay, can people see my screen now? Okay, so this is the website that wallets will use and it allows you to use a cloud wallet or a smartphone, with your browser on the smartphone, or a smart wallet and a browser on a different machine. So you log in and after logging in, it fetches your credentials that are available to you and you can select which credentials you want. We've got the JFF Plugfest one there, which is the open badge credential. If you choose that one - okay, it shows you what's there. You say, yes, I'll choose this one, and then you tell it which sort of wallet you're using. So if you’re using an cloud wallet, you'll select that one and it will send the URL to your cloud wallet. If you’re using a smartphone with wallet and browser, and you’re using your browser, now you select that one and it will actually send a deep link to your wallet. If you are using a browser as I am, and I've got a smartphone, I do this one and now I got a code to scan in to my wallet on my phone. And this will reveal a pin because the the open ID protocol surpasses two factor authentication where you can input a PIN as well. So that's for wallets. We've also got postman tests for issuers, where they can run our postman test to test if their issuer’s working. I was going to give a demo or not, but we've only got one minute left, so I'm guessing there's probably not enough time for that. Maybe we can do that at a subsequent meeting where we can show how you can run postman tests for testing your issuer. Okay, thank you very much.


[2022-09-20T17:00:40.156Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: Thank you again, David for demoing. And this brings up a good point. So on the JFF side, we will be looking for API communities to put forth testing sites like that, to make it easier for wallet implements to test against, and vice versa. So we look forward to using David's and similar projects on the VC API and credential handler side
[2022-09-20T17:00:44.332Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: and on the DIDComm side.
[2022-09-20T17:00:49.180Z]        <Transcriber>        Dmitri_Zagidulin: All right, I think that's the top of the hour for us.
[2022-09-20T17:00:53.919Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        Thanks all! Great call!
[2022-09-20T17:00:56.452Z]        <Sharon_Leu>        Thank you!
[2022-09-20T17:01:00.774Z]        <Dave_Longley>        You can also use VC-API to generate VCs and then delivery them using CHAPI + OIDC4VCI.
[2022-09-20T17:01:03.658Z]        <Julie_Keane>        Thanks all
[2022-09-20T17:01:04.486Z]        <Transcriber>        Harrison_Tang: All right, thank you Dmitri, and thanks everyone for attending. We’ll conclude this week's meeting. We’ll work on publishing the minutes in the next few days, and then if you have any questions, please feel free to send it to the mailing list. Thanks!