[2022-09-27T15:57:52.278Z]        <Jack>        present+
[2022-09-27T15:57:52.280Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        present+
[2022-09-27T15:57:52.279Z]        <Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>        present+
[2022-09-27T15:58:09.726Z]        <Jack>        present+
[2022-09-27T15:58:33.977Z]        <Suneet_Bendre>        present+
[2022-09-27T15:59:37.356Z]        <mprorock>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:00:01.160Z]        <Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>        kimberly.linson@randasolutions.com
[2022-09-27T16:00:09.255Z]        <Sam_Curren>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:00:09.444Z]        <Rebal>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:00:21.537Z]        <Paul_Dietrich_GS1>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:00:22.254Z]        <TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:00:40.261Z]        <Andrew_Whitehead>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:00:56.912Z]        <Markus_Sabadello>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:01:08.334Z]        <Sharon_Leu>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:01:31.749Z]        <Transcriber>        scribe+
[2022-09-27T16:01:31.750Z]        <Transcriber>        Meeting: weekly
[2022-09-27T16:01:32.759Z]        <Ashley_Viloria>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:01:34.431Z]        <John_Kuo>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:01:42.359Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Recording is on.
[2022-09-27T16:01:45.341Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Oh awesome, thank you Harrison.
[2022-09-27T16:01:45.507Z]        <Keith_Kowal>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:02:17.905Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Alright, well welcome everybody. We’ll take a few minutes to, you know, move through our beginning or housekeeping stuff. And then this is going to be a pretty open forum as I said in my email yesterday. You know, one of the things we started doing earlier in the year is taking this last Tuesday of the quarter to kind of just regroup and make sure that we’re
[2022-09-27T16:02:47.681Z]        <Jeff_O_-_HumanOS>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:02:52.663Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: on track with the work items that we want to be on track with, that we have new things that we want to talk about and we're talking about them, and just give everybody kind of an opportunity for that. And then of course, with TPAC happening just a couple of weeks ago, we want to give an opportunity for us to kind of share some of the takeaways and lessons and learnings from that. So that's kind of the theme for today, and we'll get through the initial part, and then we can kind of see where
[2022-09-27T16:02:53.189Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  we go. Just a reminder that this
[2022-09-27T16:03:08.559Z]        <Markus_Sabadello>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:03:13.436Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:03:24.136Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: is a professional community, and so, keep in mind the ethics and professional conduct. If you would like to take a look at that specifically, the link is in the agenda. Anybody can participate in these calls, and it's very open for that, however if you're going to make substantial contributions, then we certainly would invite you to become a full member of the CCG with your assigned IPR agreement. And the links
[2022-09-27T16:03:33.155Z]        <Marty_Reed>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:03:56.444Z]        <mprorock>        @markus - you are good to transfer that repo
[2022-09-27T16:03:56.787Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: for those can be found in the agenda. We do keep minutes of and an audio recording of everything that's said in the call, and that is also - the link to that archive is in in the agenda. And we will be queuing as Mike mentioned before, we’ll be queuing using Q+, so if you want to get on the queue, have something you want to add, then I please invite you to add yourself to the queue.
[2022-09-27T16:03:57.086Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  And that's my job today,
[2022-09-27T16:04:28.542Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: to moderate that and make sure that we're hearing from everyone. So do keep in mind that, you know, we have a large group and we want to be able to get everyone's input. I think that brings me to introductions and reintroductions, so if you would like to introduce yourself if you're new to the community, or you'd like to reintroduce yourself after being away for a little while and give us a little bit of an update on what you've been doing,
[2022-09-27T16:04:32.121Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: then I would invite you to put yourself on the queue now.
[2022-09-27T16:04:32.199Z]        <Jack>        q+
[2022-09-27T16:04:39.387Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Jack, I was hoping that you would introduce yourself.


Jack: Great, it’s been a long time and I worked with the CCG a year and a half ago to build the verifiable conditions W3C standard, which was accepted by CCG. And right now, the foundation I’m with, the Tonomy Foundation, is queuing up to implement multisignature verifiable credentials using this standard, and I’ve got some design decisions that I wanted to bring to the group today.


[2022-09-27T16:04:44.022Z]        <Gerard_Iervolino>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:04:54.353Z]        <Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>        q?
[2022-09-27T16:05:21.302Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great, we're glad you're here, thank you. Anybody else like to introduce themselves or reintroduce themselves?
[2022-09-27T16:05:33.705Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Right, how about any announcements or reminders?
[2022-09-27T16:05:36.049Z]        <Shawn_Butterfield>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:05:40.543Z]        <mprorock>        q+
[2022-09-27T16:05:41.538Z]        <Geun-Hyung>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:05:46.497Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Mike, go ahead.
[2022-09-27T16:05:56.631Z]        <Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>        ack jack
[2022-09-27T16:06:14.517Z]        <Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>        q?
[2022-09-27T16:06:17.172Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Yeah, I don't see Kaliya on, so I will speak possibly a little bit out of turn, but I know Kaliya and some of the IIW folks have been running some great sessions with Spruce on the mDL and verifiable credential potentials for interoperability, etc. Do see the mailing list if you need more info on that, but it was definitely a good
[2022-09-27T16:06:17.813Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: kickoff meeting on that topic today
[2022-09-27T16:06:26.513Z]        <Leo>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:06:30.234Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: And I know info is floating around on the mailing list on that, so feel free to just search for mDL on the mailing list, and you'll get a pile of stuff
[2022-09-27T16:06:32.681Z]        <Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>        q?
[2022-09-27T16:06:37.061Z]        <Markus_Sabadello>        q+
[2022-09-27T16:06:42.593Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great, anybody else wanted to jump in with an announcement or reminder.. Markus?


Markus_Sabadello: Yes, not sure if this is the right time, but I wanted to mention one proposed work item where there’s an open issue, which is the DID resoution test suite that we want to contribute to CCG, so I just wanted to mention that again. And a second topic is related to another work item, which is the RDF canonicalization specification that this group has been working on for a while. Related to that, there would be a request to publish that as a community group report, if the group agrees with that, because that way it could be considered as an input document for the RDF canonicalization [_____] working group. So again, this RDF canonicalization, so currently a work item in the CCG. It would be nice if that could be published as a report so that it can move potentially into a working group and become standardized.


[2022-09-27T16:06:47.455Z]        <mprorock>        ack mpro
[2022-09-27T16:06:56.730Z]        <Orie>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:08:21.025Z]        <Kaliya_IdentityWoman>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:08:26.456Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Yeah Markus, I did comment on the issue of DID resolution. Just go ahead and transfer that repo and I'll accept it, so we're ready to go there. And then I might need to add a few files so you'd be on the lookout for a PR after you do that, so, if so, just be on the lookout for that. On the final report, I am good for that. Do you mind opening an issue on the community and making sure that that repo is already titled Community, you know like final community
[2022-09-27T16:08:26.864Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  draft, etc. And then we’ll just hold a 
[2022-09-27T16:08:33.523Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: quick resolution to make sure that that rolls through.


Markus_Sabadello: Yeah, sounds good. Thank you!


[2022-09-27T16:08:41.340Z]        <Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>        q?
[2022-09-27T16:08:44.504Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great, thank you. Anybody else got something they want to bring to the group?
[2022-09-27T16:09:04.981Z]        <Geun-Hyung>        s/Quick/DID
[2022-09-27T16:09:10.274Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Okay, well let's jump into our main conversation for the day, and that is to really have an open conversation about TPAC and work item updates, working group updates, so, Mike, do you mind if I sort of pick on you to start with a TPAC discussion and we’ll start there?
[2022-09-27T16:09:24.213Z]        <Tomislav_Markovski>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:09:27.845Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Oh sure, why not. Um yeah, TPAC was interesting. Certainly as far as this group goes, I think the two biggest items of kind of key relevance.. Well first, before I even
[2022-09-27T16:10:02.750Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: get into that, I would say even in kind of the main kind of open AC sessions and things like that, there was a lot of discussion of verifiable credentials and DIDs, and a lot of interest. We certainly saw some folks, you know, like Intel for example, really engaging openly, which I thought was great, and a great sign of things to come. In fact, there was a panel that I was on specifically related to kind of future web, very focused all DIDs and VCs. Manu
[2022-09-27T16:10:03.226Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  had a pretty good call out around
[2022-09-27T16:10:36.781Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: getting stuff into operations right, and actual public deployments of VCS as well during one of the main sessions. So I think that's a good sense. There was a lot of very active, but I think productive, discussion in both the DID and the VC meetings. I know Markus is on - he may want to comment specifically on the DID items I was following on IRC. Chris Abernathy on our team was more engaged on that meeting. I know Orie was probably
[2022-09-27T16:10:37.236Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  pretty engaged in that, and for sure several others on the VC side of things
[2022-09-27T16:11:10.491Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: as well. So that's probably just more than enough of just a blurb, you know - here's my 30 seconds of TPAC I think was good. I think we see where some challenges are going to come with VCs in particular, and I think we've got some natural next steps and potential challenges to work through with DIDs. One of the more interesting items that I thought came out of the DID working group discussions at TPAC was the notion of maybe focusing
[2022-09-27T16:11:10.932Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  a lot more testing around things like resolution, as opposed to
[2022-09-27T16:11:33.293Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: specifically focusing on standardizing specific DID methods. And that was an area that was brought up that I think is worth, and you know, maybe having some conversation around. So I don't know, Markus, are you open to being picked on for some commentary around the DID working group in particular?


Markus_Sabadello: So I attended remotely, I wasn’t there in person and I wasn’t able to attend all of it, but I can also confirm what you said, which is that there was an interest in standardizing DID resolution as opposed to individual DID methods. Initially, there was some sense that maybe some common DID methods could be standardized, like DID key, or did:web, but then there was a lot of discussion over which DID methods should be standarized, and which ones are typical DID methods that should have prominent place in the standarization program. That was really hard to find consensus on that, I think. And therefore, the idea is to standard DID resolution and therefore demonstrate interoperability better than before. Other than that, I can’t add much more to that. I wasn’t able to attend all of it, and I’m sorry. 


[2022-09-27T16:11:51.305Z]        <smagennis>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:12:29.088Z]        <Orie>        did:jwk should be standardized :) ... but maybe at IETF instead of W3C.
[2022-09-27T16:12:51.041Z]        <mprorock>        +1 orie
[2022-09-27T16:12:59.632Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: So, Orie, can I ask you to say a little bit more about your thoughts?
[2022-09-27T16:13:29.627Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: Sure, I mean I was there. There was discussion about standardizing specific DID methods. If I were to summarize the objections to that, I think there was concern that the DID methods chosen to be standardized at the W3C would have W3C values sort of embedded in them, and that that might not actually be the right sort of signal to send regarding DID methods. The other side of that 
[2022-09-27T16:14:00.733Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: is that it was pretty clear that if we don't attempt to talk about mandatory to implement DID methods, we probably would expect to see some objections to the work the next time around. I’d agree with Markus, you know, what he said about standardizing DID resolution. I think in general, folks wanted to see better interoperability testing in the DID specification. We had tasks for the core data
[2022-09-27T16:14:01.103Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie:  model, but
[2022-09-27T16:14:28.395Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: those tests didn't help us cover interoperability around resolution and dereferencing to the degree that we really needed it in order to be confident when you're verifying something, you fully understand how you obtain the key that's verifying it. I think DID resolution is the thing that we ought to be focused on. I think that focusing on specific DID methods is a community fracturing attack. That’s it.
[2022-09-27T16:14:37.610Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: That's really helpful. Does anybody else want to add to that or have thoughts about that?
[2022-09-27T16:15:00.345Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Alright, what are some other takeaways from TPAC? Do we want to keep going, Mike, or move off of TPAC and talk about other stuff?
[2022-09-27T16:15:16.095Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: I've lost Mike, so…
[2022-09-27T16:15:36.987Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: No, I'm just sitting here. Yeah, apologies. I think you know there were other things that might even be worth diving into, especially from verifiable credential side of things. I think something that's become very clear,
[2022-09-27T16:16:11.030Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: especially now that we have some pretty broad usage of VCs, both in test environments, as well as kind of a big public and in the wild. We're seeing different ways of using verifiable credentials, right? You know, there's large parties using verifiable credentials with more of a private claims kind of approach - that the way I like to think of it anyways - where you use add vocab in order to define what are the core properties of a verifiable
[2022-09-27T16:16:11.559Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  credential, and what the meanings of those things are.
[2022-09-27T16:16:44.157Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: But then the actual contents may be, you know, pre-assigned separately, right? Through a business arrangement or something else, similar to the way we tend to see JWK as used in practice. And that definitely has got a lot of wide usage, and contrasts though with the way that others in the community might use vocabularies to define semantic meaning for every single, you know, key value pair and a set of claims, right?
[2022-09-27T16:16:44.540Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  And I think it's something,
[2022-09-27T16:17:16.038Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: you know, we're at a point where we do need to be thinking about “Okay, how do we make sure the tent is open as possible, and not close off other use cases just because they might not be the way that we use something, or intend to use something, or whatever else, right? Because it's one of those things where that's always a danger, right? If you start to establish and say “No, this is the way something must be done”. To a degree, for sure, that is the nature of standardization, right? But we also do have to be mindful of how are things
[2022-09-27T16:17:16.509Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  actually being used in the wild.
[2022-09-27T16:17:30.543Z]        <David_I._Lehn>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:17:50.932Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: And I don't know if others may or may not have thoughts on that, or, you know, things that might cause problems for large-scale deployments in other areas. I mean, I can definitely call on some names of various folks on this call if I wanted to, but I know other folks feel strongly about this. And hopefully maybe some folks will queue to talk about that, or talk about, you know, getting into practice with VCs and what's working and what's not. Would love to hear, you know, some
[2022-09-27T16:17:51.476Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock:  thoughts from the broader Community on that.
[2022-09-27T16:17:59.463Z]        <Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>        q?
[2022-09-27T16:18:07.380Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Anybody want to add themselves to the queue?
[2022-09-27T16:18:15.923Z]        <David_I._Lehn>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:18:22.513Z]        <mprorock>        /me glares at orie and shawn
[2022-09-27T16:18:26.993Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Alright, so Jack, does this tie in to what you wanted to talk to us about, or is now a good time for you to maybe jump in and share?


Jack: I wouldn’t say it’s directly related. It’s more about having a multisignature mechanism for verifiable credentials. So it’s related, but not directly related.


[2022-09-27T16:18:44.636Z]        <Markus_Sabadello>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:18:51.248Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Well I'm happy for you to take some time now to talk with us about what you -


Jack: Yeah, that would be great. I have a slide to visually bring people up to date with what that is, if that’s okay. Can people see my screen?


[2022-09-27T16:19:06.677Z]        <Transcriber>        mprorock: Yep, you're coming through.


Jack: Great. So basically, we with the CCG, implemented a standard called verifiable conditions. And this is a way to describe multiparty and delegated signature conditions in the verification method in the DID document. So we're currently are going ahead and implementing this in verifiable credentials to basically allow multisignatures or delegated signatures in verifiable credentials using this standard. And we have a few questions to kind of trigger some conversations here before we go and complete the implementation. We've already started quite a bit of research, so just to get it on to speed, this is the standard. And to show you a bit about well, what it kind of looks like, this is a DID document here. And this standard allows a new verification method type called verifiable condition. And you can see here, this type allows you to describe different conditions for these signature requirements. And so this here, this one here is showing that you need to have two conditions met and a Edwards code 25519. And you need to to verify this other condition, which is specified as another verifiable condition so it's nestable. And then that one is an or condition. So in the end, this says to verify, to authenticate or to meet the signature requirements, you need to have one of these two keys, and this key. Right. It's a bit more complex than that. I just showed you two of these. It also allows you to do threshold and weighted thresholds delegations to other accounts. And then some relationships like a parent key or child key, things like this. It's nestable, and the actual cryptographic material, as I assure, is still using the same types that we see today on DID documents to describe what crypto material is here and what curves we use. So that's kind of an introduction. This is on the DID document to describe the conditions. And what we're doing now is looking at what the proof should be on a verifiable credential. This can also apply to DIDComm for example. And the kind of first question is what would be the best way to implement a proof? And I've thought about already three different ways to do this. I'll show you these three, and then I'll ask for discussion. So the first is using an embedded proof. So you can see here on a proof - this works through JSON-LD document VC and you can create an embedded proof with a proof set, right. And you can see this would satisfy the condition of having this signature, and the signature on there. It works well for JSON-LD, but this this mechanism does not support JWT. Also, each verification method identifier in the proof set can actually go and and reference directly to the the individual key. That's part of the condition. See this - each sub condition in the verification method actually has an identifier. And with the proof set, you can actually go and reference which key you're using there to satisfy the condition. The second one is using a multisignature JWT. So there is a specification for JWTs and JWSs to have multisignature support. So this would be to basically include multiple signatures in the JWT. So when you execute this command, this is from the JWT library, this JWT here would have multiple signatures in it. This can also work with JSON-LD. because of this JWS here can be multi-signature as well. So there is an advantage here that this does work for the two different approaches with proofs. With this though, the identifier here, this has to reference the root level verifiable condition verification method type. And the last one is to create a new proof type altogether. So this is a verifiable condition proof 2022. And you can see here, it kind of mocks a similar structure to the verifiable condition verification method type. And here you can get a very verbose way of describing the signatures and how they meet the requirements. This really only supports with JSON-LD. So that's the three mechanisms. The first question I want to open to see what people's opinions were was - which mechanism do they think might be appropriate here?


[2022-09-27T16:21:00.213Z]        <TallTed>        Is it too late, or may I suggest changing from "W3C Verifiable Conditions" to "W3C Conditional Verifiability", to avoid (further) overloading "VC" (he asked, hoping "CV" is less overloaded, or at least used by a different community)
[2022-09-27T16:22:35.760Z]        <Orie>        bottom example is wrong....Ed25519Siganture2018 uses detached JWS... thats an attached jws in the example.
[2022-09-27T16:22:54.586Z]        <mprorock>        I wish manu was on this call - this would be worth discussing on data-integrity in the VC WG https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-integrity
[2022-09-27T16:23:04.243Z]        <TallTed>        q+ to ask Is it too late, or may I suggest changing from "W3C Verifiable Conditions" to "W3C Conditional Verifiability", to avoid (further) overloading "VC" (he asked, hoping "CV" is less overloaded, or at least used by a different community)
[2022-09-27T16:23:15.776Z]        <mprorock>        ack Markus
[2022-09-27T16:23:20.954Z]        <Ashley_Viloria>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:24:04.320Z]        <Orie>        thats a link to stack overflow... not an RFC for multisignature JWS.
[2022-09-27T16:24:17.479Z]        <mprorock>        +1 orie
[2022-09-27T16:24:18.619Z]        <Orie>        AFAIK, there is no RFC for multiple signature JWS.
[2022-09-27T16:24:28.751Z]        <Orie>        but exciting idea!
[2022-09-27T16:24:59.705Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Thanks Jack, can I ask you, before I turn it over to the queue - I've got some folks I'm going to call on in just a second - but I'm wondering if you could give me just a really quick like “How is this going to be used in the wild? Like how would somebody use this?


Jack: So I guess the question to address here is “Why would you have multiple signatures on a VC?”


Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Yeah.


Jack: So there's some good articles out there. There's two, I think, good reasons. The first is if you want to have multiple parties approve of VC, for some reason. The second is if you want to use multiple cryptographic proofs to make sure a client can support at least one of those proof verifications.


[2022-09-27T16:25:11.923Z]        <Nate_Otto_(he/him)>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:25:19.097Z]        <Markus_Sabadello>        JWS supports multiple signatures. Just not in compact serialization, but thefe are other serializations if JWS.
[2022-09-27T16:25:38.634Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Okay thank you, I should have asked you that to start. Ted?


Jack: If there’s any other obvious questions or non-obvious questions, please feel free to ask as well.


[2022-09-27T16:25:38.804Z]        <Orie>        related: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/932
[2022-09-27T16:25:51.264Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Alright, Ted, let me let you start because I think you had a question at the very beginning about the name and -
[2022-09-27T16:26:07.104Z]        <Transcriber>        TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Yeah, I'm hoping it's not too late to suggest changing that name from verifiable conditions to conditional verifiability or something like that. VCs with VCs is not going to work out well.


Jack: Yeah, we already have problems with that, so it's actually quite a good suggestion. Maybe we should think of that. It's still a draft condition, so it's very open to have the name changed.


TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): Great.


Jack: What was your suggestion?


[2022-09-27T16:26:11.086Z]        <mprorock>        @or13 rfc7515 "The JWS JSON Serialization represents JWSs as JSON objects and enables multiple signatures and/or MACs to be applied to the same content.  Both share the same cryptographic underpinnings."
[2022-09-27T16:26:25.327Z]        <Transcriber>        TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): I suggested conditional verifiability, but that’s
[2022-09-27T16:26:30.340Z]        <Transcriber>        TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com): obviously just off the top of my head.
[2022-09-27T16:26:44.571Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Alright, and Orie, you've had a lot of comments and I'm hoping you will expand on those for us.
[2022-09-27T16:26:50.612Z]        <Markus_Sabadello>        q+
[2022-09-27T16:27:04.950Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: I'm trying to find the links to all of the issues in the VC data model that are relevant to this. There's several issues that have to do with multiplicity of the issuer or the holder or the subject fields, all of which would be relevant to this, so I'll try and find them and share them with chat.


Jack: What’s relevant about them? Maybe I just need to go follow the links. Are these like people requesting this kind of feature?


[2022-09-27T16:27:50.383Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: To some degree. I mean, essentially there's been discussion about credentials with multiple issuers, credentials with multiple subjects, and you know, it's related to the structures that you're showing here. It's also I think related to some of the comments from Sam Smith on ACDC. I interpret your solution to be implementing the VC standard, and so
[2022-09-27T16:27:56.986Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: compatible with that standard directly, but relying on some 
[2022-09-27T16:28:25.047Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: of this sort of conditioning components. And at TPAC, you know, one of the things that was discussed was maybe we focus on widening the tent for these security formats for the VC core data model. I think what you are proposing here fits into that kind of bigger tent opportunity for the securing formats.


Jack: Yeah. So first, this came up just 14 days ago, people saying that there was a use case for this. The second was that this was designed, the verifiable condition standard was designed to be compliant to DID 1.0 and there should be no need to modify 1.0 or 1.1 or 2.0. And again, we're looking, as you can see with all of these mechanisms, to make this compliant to existing VC standards. So no core standards need to be changed for this to work, in our opinion. If there's is maybe a better way to do this by changing the standard, maybe I would suggest we escalate that to a bigger discussion. But right now we're just trying to do it within the standard.


[2022-09-27T16:28:56.402Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        q?
[2022-09-27T16:29:03.191Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        ack TallTed
[2022-09-27T16:29:17.449Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Markus, did you want to share some thoughts?


Markus: Yes, I'm curious to understand a bit better the three options that you presented. I couldn't follow them in detail, but I have a rule or an expectation that there is, that if you have a proof in a verifiable credential, that this points to all this, because I think in some of your three options, I thought there was a proof and a verifiable credential which points to more than one verification method. So I'm wondering if we should allow that, or if the expectation should always be that - that here's one proof and you need one verification. I think that might point to your second option and not so much to your first option. I think in your first option, you had the proof pointing to multiple verification methods, and I'm not sure if that made so much sense to me. I think I like the option more where, or I like the option better where verification method, which which can have multiple nested verification methods, I think that's fine. But if the proof points to the top level, well single verification method that contains others that that made a bit more sense to me than to point from the proof to multiple verification methods separately. But I think it would be great if maybe you also share the options with the mailing list so we can think about them and -


Jack: I can easily share this presentation afterwards. But yes, you're right. Basically you can see here in the DID document, you've got the top level verification method here with hashtag one, and then you've got subconditions have like further identifiers, so hashtag 1-1-1, 1-1-2. And this is a second level one, so it's just 1-2. And then with the proof set, well, we could do it two ways. This could just directly refer to -1, the root level verification method. And then so with this, I thought I guess there was an opportunity here to reference directly to that subcondition and that might assist with whoever's checking this proof set to be able to figure out which key in this DID document they want to verify against. We don't have to do it that way. So I think both methods could directly refer to the root verification method, but there's also maybe an opportunity to reference to the sub one as well. And then with the multisignature data, so JWT, you can see it refers directly to the reverification method. And if you're using the DID JWT library, it doesn't have a reference. Oh no, it does have a reference and it would again reference just to the root level verification method. And the third option, when you have a new type, a condition type, then you can do both basically.


[2022-09-27T16:29:19.143Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        ack Marakus_Sabadello
[2022-09-27T16:29:20.809Z]        <Rebecca_Busacca,_Territorium>        present+
[2022-09-27T16:29:28.440Z]        <Orie>        Related: https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/762#issuecomment-1218428660
[2022-09-27T16:29:39.119Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        ack Markus_Sabadello
[2022-09-27T16:30:04.385Z]        <Orie>        related? https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/756
[2022-09-27T16:31:40.145Z]        <Orie>        Cool to see that no changes are needed to DID Core.
[2022-09-27T16:32:09.308Z]        <Orie>        A spec for data integrity or vc-jwt would be needed for VC Data Model v2 though... I think.
[2022-09-27T16:32:55.904Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Tomislav, did you want to add some thoughts?
[2022-09-27T16:33:20.660Z]        <Transcriber>        Tomislav_Markovski: Yes, I had a question. I'm wondering how does the type of the verification map to the proof that's required in the condition? So one key can be used to produce different signature types, different proofs. Is there a way to express which specific is required as part of it?


Jack: Yes. So the requirements for the proof are expressed in the verification method in the DID document, if I'm understanding your question correctly. So that's where it specifies the condition and the crypto material to verify against. And here you use the existing verification method types to specify what curve or crypto condition, crypto material to verify with. Does that answer your question?


[2022-09-27T16:33:41.537Z]        <Orie>        Yep... the `type` of the nested verificationMethod
[2022-09-27T16:34:02.155Z]        <Orie>        q+
[2022-09-27T16:34:07.381Z]        <Transcriber>        Tomislav_Markovski: Yes it does. So for example, if I were to have a JSON web key in this, which I can use to produce a BLS signature or a BLS group signature or maybe a BBS signature. Does that mean that I would have to define three specific suites in order to express that?


Jack: So maybe you want to say to meet this condition, you have to have signatures from all three, just to give an example. Then you would have a condition &, and then underneath that, you would have an array here of those three keys saying each of them is a BLS key. And then the public key format, which is a JWK, and then in the signature you would sign three times with each of those three separate keys. Here in the proof you would have the signature here in a JWS perhaps. In this one, you would put the signature into the JWS that goes into the JWT.


[2022-09-27T16:35:01.360Z]        <Transcriber>        Tomislav_Markovski: Right, yeah sorry, I want to understand if I'm communicating the question correctly. A single key can be used for three different proof types/ How would that be expressed?


Jack: Interesting. I had not thought of that.


Orie: I can answer that.


[2022-09-27T16:35:12.745Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great Orie, go ahead.
[2022-09-27T16:35:41.116Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: So you should not use a single key for three different proof types. You might be able to do that, and you might be allowed to express an intention to do that in certain key representations, but I don't think you should do that. The thing I think that's missing to make this example clear as a JWK example, because in the JWK format, you can specify the algorithm you're intending to use.
[2022-09-27T16:35:41.482Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie:  So, just
[2022-09-27T16:36:16.078Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: for example, if we're looking at a set of P256K1 public key, that's a Bitcoin or ethereum public key. Now you might say the algorithm will be ES256k. That's going to be well understood because that's a registered algorithm type. You might say well I want to use that same public key but with Schnorr signatures, and then you would put in that different alt value there, it would be SS256k or something else. Just to be clear,
[2022-09-27T16:36:16.712Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie:  there isn't any registered algorithm type for Schnorr signature over
[2022-09-27T16:36:47.598Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: exactly 26K1 at this time. And likewise, there is no registered algorithm type for BLS, BBS+ signatures in JWK alt registry at this time. But you can imagine that if those were registered and the key was bound to a specific algorithm, then it would be very clear how you're supposed to sort of use them. I think adding some JWK examples here would be helpful to sort of explain
[2022-09-27T16:36:48.010Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie:  that idea a little further. Because
[2022-09-27T16:37:05.547Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: the thing to remember is like public key Base58, that's a community draft key representation at this point, whereas public key JWK relies on an existing RFC. That's it.
[2022-09-27T16:37:19.450Z]        <Transcriber>        Tomislav_Markovski: Right, so you're seeing - what you described is a feature of the JWK key, which can express what the underlying signature schemes should be used with it.
[2022-09-27T16:37:38.135Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: Yeah, and I think it's a best practice when you generate a key, to generate it for a single purpose to include that purpose in the key representation as much as possible. JWK supports that by adding the altfield and the keyops parameters to the JWK and I would recommend you make use of those.
[2022-09-27T16:37:40.814Z]        <Transcriber>        Tomislav_Markovski: Okay, sounds good. Thanks.


Jack: Just so that I can understand the scope of this question a bit better. Does this problem exist for this multisignature approach, or is this also a problem if you just want to do one signature and expressing how you will use the same key?


[2022-09-27T16:38:11.070Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: It applies to both. In the case where you're expressing a key, you should express your intended algorithm that that key is meant to be used with. You should be explicit regarding the algorithm the key was intended to be used with.
[2022-09-27T16:38:32.760Z]        <Orie>        example,  JWK: https://github.com/OR13/did-jwk/blob/main/src/cli-examples/key.authenticity.json
[2022-09-27T16:38:41.627Z]        <Orie>        note the `alg` and `key_ops`


Jack: So I'll just add one thing. So I'm sort of getting from Markus that he's liking this approach the most. I spoke to Niels from Sphereon about this. He also suggested the JWT approach mainly because it was probably a implementation with the existing VC libraries. But does anyone else have an opinion on the best way to do this before I go on to the next question?


[2022-09-27T16:39:13.862Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: I was going to ask if you would, as we talked about a little bit ago, put this slide deck on the list. And I think folks will contribute and give you their opinions on which one might be the best avenue there, and I think it'll make for a really interesting dialogue, if that's if that's all right with you.


Jack: I’ll do that. I already wrote it down as a to-do for myself.


[2022-09-27T16:39:14.400Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Alright, we have about 20 minutes left
[2022-09-27T16:39:40.157Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: and I want to make sure we talk about what the working groups have been up to. VC-EDU, I know that you have been very busy and you've shared with us a little bit about what's going on, but do you want to take just a quick minute, maybe Kerri, to kind of give a couple of high-level bullets of what you've been up to the last three months or so?
[2022-09-27T16:39:41.837Z]        <Tomislav_Markovski>        Can `alg` take multiple values or does it require separate entries for the same key to express multiple sig schemes?
[2022-09-27T16:39:42.996Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: Hey there, sure no problem.
[2022-09-27T16:40:00.190Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        VC-EDU Site: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/
[2022-09-27T16:40:09.271Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        VC-EDU Charter: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/charter/
[2022-09-27T16:40:16.008Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: So probably most of you have heard about the Plugfest too, so I'm not going to start there. I'll just start briefly with what we’re about. So we’re a community that's focusing on supporting and increasing the adoption of verifiable credentials in education and employment. I’m going to put a bunch of links in the chat for you. This is our website where we put information about what's going on in VC-EDU. This next link is our chapter. And then what
[2022-09-27T16:40:16.493Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie:  I'll do first is tell you one of the work items that we have. We have two main work items. 
[2022-09-27T16:40:30.863Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        VC-EDU Use Cases: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed-use-cases/
[2022-09-27T16:40:47.561Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: beyond everything else going on in our group. One is to develop a use cases document, and another one is to produce a model recommendation. We're currently working on the model recommendation based on the use cases in this document. And this document is published, but also requires some editing still. So we're finishing up some editing and then we're going to send it out to the community to make any sort of further edits and suggestions in the GitHub repo. But we
[2022-09-27T16:40:47.929Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie:  recently just published it
[2022-09-27T16:40:51.005Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: out of a Google Doc into this document.
[2022-09-27T16:41:03.095Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        Plugfest 2 site: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/vc-ed/plugfest-2-2022/
[2022-09-27T16:41:04.738Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: So another big initiative that we've been sort of co-working on or collaborating with on is with Jobs For The Future, which is JFF, which is a Plugfest 2, and this is the website for that.
[2022-09-27T16:41:35.444Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: You can find all the information there. We are well into this now. We have over 40 participants and what they're working on - So Plugfest 1 was about displaying a VC in a credential. We've been following the open badges 3.0 specification, which recently has aligned with VCs. And then Plugfest 2 is about protocols. It's about connecting issuers to wallets, and we are using the three primary protocols.
[2022-09-27T16:41:35.818Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie:  VC API, OIDC,
[2022-09-27T16:41:53.621Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: and DIDComm. And there'll be a demo event on November 14th at IIW, at the Museum of Computer History.. Is that what it is, Kimberly? The day before IIW, on November 14th.
[2022-09-27T16:42:00.786Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        Open Badges 3.0 Candidate Release: https://imsglobal.github.io/openbadges-specification/ob_v3p0.html
[2022-09-27T16:42:26.677Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: And then also, I’ll just give you a link to the open badges 3.0 candidate release. There is a corresponding - this is a 1EdTech org release. Previously they were called IMS Global. There is a corresponding data model called CLR. I don't have a link to CLR V2, but maybe somebody on the call has that. And these are shared data models and they are aligning, have allied with verifiable credentials.
[2022-09-27T16:42:27.460Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: And then lastly, 
[2022-09-27T16:42:28.886Z]        <Marty_Reed>        V2 is not candidate final public as of yet
[2022-09-27T16:42:42.913Z]        <Marty_Reed>        for CLR
[2022-09-27T16:43:01.298Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: we’ve had a lot of interesting and rich call topics. So we did a call on DIDs V1. Once the recommendation pased, we talked about DIDs are, why it matters for education and training and achievement credentials. We also did an introduction to the Gitcoin passport, which is an interesting bridge between Web 3 and also VCs. We had a call about soulbound tokens, which is sort of a discussion about, you know, what does this mean between VCs
[2022-09-27T16:43:01.857Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie:  and NFTs, and what does this mean in education? And then yesterday, we had an 
[2022-09-27T16:43:24.151Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: excellent call on EBSI, which is a European model for issuer registries. And all of these links to these meetings - we usually have the minutes published on the the VC-EDU site, and also, you can join our mailing list and find more information there.
[2022-09-27T16:43:28.754Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: And that was a really quick recap. I wanted to leave room for other people.
[2022-09-27T16:43:28.991Z]        <Orie>        SBTs -- > NT-NFTs
[2022-09-27T16:43:30.327Z]        <Nate_Otto_(he/him)>        I don't think 1EdTech has quite yet published a Comprehensive Learner Record 2.0 (CLR) document in parallel to the OB 3.0 work yet (it's on a slightly different less-public track, but it will be published as a "candidate final public" soon after a 1EdTech internal review phase that is taking a few weeks longer than originally hoped.
[2022-09-27T16:43:45.153Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        Mailing list archive: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-edu/
[2022-09-27T16:43:58.284Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: No thanks, Kerri, that was great and I'm so glad you mentioned all of the great topics you've had recently. I know I get so much out of every one I attend. So if you aren't a regular attender of VC-EDU, I would definitely echo, you know, checking out the minutes of those calls. Does anybody have any questions for VC-EDU, or comments they want to make? Please put yourself on the queue.
[2022-09-27T16:44:02.374Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        Thanks @nate
[2022-09-27T16:44:18.230Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Okay, well let's move to - do I have somebody who wants to give us an update on VC API working group?
[2022-09-27T16:44:40.569Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        Thanks @marty
[2022-09-27T16:44:48.959Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: I don't think Mike is on the call anymore for me to put on the spot, so I don't know who to put on the spot to ask about VC API, so somebody please
[2022-09-27T16:44:49.218Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson:  help me out.
[2022-09-27T16:45:01.070Z]        <Transcriber>        Kerri_Lemoie: I think many of the participants are at Reboot this week Kimberly.
[2022-09-27T16:45:20.969Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Yeah, alright well, we will have to to live without an update on VC API. And maybe we've got somebody from Traceability?
[2022-09-27T16:45:45.307Z]        <Orie>        https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-vocab/pulls
[2022-09-27T16:45:47.150Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: I can give an update if Mike isn't here. So yeah, there's been a lot of activity so I'll just pull up the latest history quick. Essentially we've continued to merge pull requests around vocabulary and credential shapes for supply chain credentials. So if you're looking at the latest poll requests in the Traceability vocabulary, you'll see there's some active discussions there
[2022-09-27T16:46:20.768Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: around, you know, CT Pack credential subject type of bugs on 3461 and packing lists. If that's if that's not exciting, I don't know what is. These have to do with the shapes of verifiable credentials that meet compliance requirements for critical trade data associated with cross-border shipments. So the vocabulary item in the Traceability calls is focused on defining those vocabulary
[2022-09-27T16:46:21.291Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: terms and explaining the different credentials shapes
[2022-09-27T16:46:32.309Z]        <Orie>        https://github.com/w3c-ccg/traceability-interop/pulls
[2022-09-27T16:46:51.989Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: necessary to support cross-border trade scenarios. And then the interoperability repository, you can see there's a lot of activity on that one as well. This one has to do with the APIs that we use to test conformance around these vocabulary credential types. So what we do there is we have a couple companies that have stood up interoperable infrastructure, and every night,
[2022-09-27T16:47:00.164Z]        <Orie>        https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-interop/reports/interoperability/
[2022-09-27T16:47:24.854Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: API is run, and our interoperability test report is generated. Here's a quick link to that interoperability test report. And you can see, you know, some of us, you know - sometimes we have good days, sometimes we have bad days. Interoperability is a moving target, but we measure it daily. And if you're interested in passing these interoperability tests, there's instructions in the Traceability interoperability repo for how to get started.
[2022-09-27T16:47:25.337Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie:  And essentially, you stand up a
[2022-09-27T16:47:37.281Z]        <Transcriber>        Orie: web server that implements these open APIs, and you register. And then you show up in the interoperability report. Happy to answer any questions you might have about it.
[2022-09-27T16:47:45.400Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great, thanks anyone want to put themselves on the queue with a question?
[2022-09-27T16:47:46.930Z]        <Kimberly_Wilson_Linson>        q?
[2022-09-27T16:47:52.446Z]        <Orie>        q-
[2022-09-27T16:48:11.569Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Alright, are there any other work items or things that have been going on in the CCG that we want to talk about as a community right now?
[2022-09-27T16:48:26.020Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Alright, well I'm going to give you back a couple of minutes, but before I do that, Harrison, do you mind sharing with everybody what we have coming next week?
[2022-09-27T16:48:53.031Z]        <Transcriber>        Harrison_Tang: Yes, so next week we invited Nick Lambert, the CEO of Dock to talk about the Dock search and the Web 3 ID. They are going to demo the sign-in with etherium functionalities, and we are preparing a couple questions for him to answer, so if you guys have any questions, please come prepared. And
[2022-09-27T16:48:53.383Z]        <Transcriber>        Harrison_Tang:  a week after that, we're going to have
[2022-09-27T16:49:24.295Z]        <Transcriber>        Harrison_Tang: Thoms from SATP to kind of talk about their work there, and then after that, we're going to have someone from Ceramic to talk about Ceramic Network. And I'm going to, we're actually kind of cleaning up the W3C calendars - let me put it in the chat here. And then we're going to put these scheduled events so that [2022-09-27T16:49:24.653Z]        <Transcriber>        Harrison_Tang:  people can see what's coming in advance.
[2022-09-27T16:49:29.477Z]        <Harrison_Tang>        https://www.w3.org/groups/cg/credentials/calendar
[2022-09-27T16:49:41.641Z]        <Kerri_Lemoie>        Thanks!
[2022-09-27T16:49:42.563Z]        <Transcriber>        Kimberly_Wilson_Linson: Great. Thanks, Harrison. Alright everybody thank you so much for joining us today, and look forward to seeing you again next week. Have a great week everyone!