[2021-08-17T15:59:31.248Z]	<bobwyman>	present+
[2021-08-17T15:59:31.249Z]	<Moses>	present+
[2021-08-17T15:59:31.250Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	present+
[2021-08-17T15:59:33.078Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-08-17T15:59:44.403Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-08-17T15:59:45.610Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:00:07.177Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0201.html
[2021-08-17T16:00:20.416Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:00:34.594Z]	<econnell>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:01:30.799Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:01:35.574Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:01:52.058Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:01:54.592Z]	<Kaliya_IdentityWoman>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:02:01.688Z]	<TallTed_//_Ted_Thibodeau_(he/him)_(OpenLinkSw.com)>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:02:24.461Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:02:29.507Z]	<Geun-Hyung>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:02:36.256Z]	<agropper_>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:02:47.031Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:02:54.470Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:03:07.380Z]	<Geun-Hyung_>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:03:11.300Z]	<Kimberly_Linson>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:03:24.797Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:03:37.937Z]	<rgrant>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:04:36.812Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:05:25.714Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Minutes: https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/
[2021-08-17T16:06:39.008Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Scribe selection: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LkqZ10z7FeV3EgMIQEJ9achEYMzy1d_2S90Q_lQ0y8M/edit#heading=h.ngyk8y939osi
[2021-08-17T16:07:39.089Z]	<Orie>	scribe+
[2021-08-17T16:07:55.713Z]	<Orie>	/me sad apple keyboard breaking...
[2021-08-17T16:08:07.530Z]	<Orie>	Topic: Introductions
[2021-08-17T16:09:14.111Z]	<Orie>	Moses: I run venture incubator, interested in covid management
[2021-08-17T16:09:36.934Z]	<Orie>	Topic: Announcements
[2021-08-17T16:09:40.290Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	q+
[2021-08-17T16:09:40.885Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-08-17T16:09:47.062Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Wayne_C
[2021-08-17T16:09:59.610Z]	<Orie>	Wayne_C: Wanted to review elements of Code of Conduct
[2021-08-17T16:10:01.134Z]	<JeffO-StL>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:10:13.852Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:10:18.784Z]	<Orie>	... as we see debates, its important to remember the CoC
[2021-08-17T16:10:38.898Z]	<manu>	q-
[2021-08-17T16:10:39.973Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-08-17T16:10:47.104Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://www.recurse.com/code-of-conduct
[2021-08-17T16:10:50.566Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	https://www.w3.org/Consortium/cepc/
[2021-08-17T16:10:54.798Z]	<Orie>	... nobody should feel mistreated... when you have strong opinions, be careful to follow the CoC
[2021-08-17T16:11:15.835Z]	<Orie>	... please review the links provided
[2021-08-17T16:11:20.234Z]	<Taylor_(LEF)>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:12:17.822Z]	<Orie>	... specifically, avoid harassment, threats, unwelcoming behavior, antagonizing, etc...
[2021-08-17T16:12:43.680Z]	<Orie>	... please be pleasant, try to be nice, not hostile or aggressive
[2021-08-17T16:13:14.703Z]	<Orie>	... be direct and assertive, but also considerate, and generous in your interpretation of other arguments
[2021-08-17T16:13:41.166Z]	<Orie>	... remember these baselines
[2021-08-17T16:14:17.294Z]	<manu>	I really appreciate the Chairs reminding the group of all of this.
[2021-08-17T16:14:21.072Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:14:26.836Z]	<Orie>	Heather: we're all passionate, some email list conversations need to be considered more carefully.
[2021-08-17T16:14:29.621Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Kaliya_I
[2021-08-17T16:14:47.743Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:15:01.198Z]	<Orie>	Kaliya_IdentityWoman: IIW is coming up, its virtual again, October 12-13th
[2021-08-17T16:15:15.811Z]	<Orie>	... if you can't afford it, please reach out.
[2021-08-17T16:15:20.933Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack manu
[2021-08-17T16:15:37.398Z]	<Orie>	manu: DID Core is becoming a global standard
[2021-08-17T16:15:55.207Z]	<Orie>	... we are asking for testimonials of large production environments
[2021-08-17T16:16:15.595Z]	<Orie>	... specifically looking for testimonials regarding DIDs and VCs
[2021-08-17T16:16:41.991Z]	<Orie>	... also, the vote for the vc-http-api naming, remains open till Thursday
[2021-08-17T16:16:46.476Z]	<manu>	[VOTE] VC HTTP API Renaming Poll now open -- https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0193.html
[2021-08-17T16:16:59.640Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:17:16.658Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Action Items: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/community/issues
[2021-08-17T16:17:29.614Z]	<Orie>	Heather: we don't have anything we need to cover
[2021-08-17T16:17:41.371Z]	<Orie>	... we do need to chat about DID Methods
[2021-08-17T16:18:16.656Z]	<Orie>	... chairs will figure out what to do, host a discussion on the list
[2021-08-17T16:18:37.515Z]	<Orie>	... please use the list to discuss scope and boundaries
[2021-08-17T16:18:47.846Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:19:36.386Z]	<Orie>	Cel: EIP-712 signature suite, need feedback from the group
[2021-08-17T16:20:03.744Z]	<Orie>	Topic: Main Agenda: Branding and Naming Considerations
[2021-08-17T16:20:14.009Z]	<Orie>	Heather: considering branding and naming
[2021-08-17T16:21:01.780Z]	<Orie>	... I used to be an expert, this screen share is from my archive
[2021-08-17T16:21:08.003Z]	<mprorock>	have eyes on queue
[2021-08-17T16:21:21.170Z]	<Orie>	... wanted to cover high points on branding and naming
[2021-08-17T16:21:34.837Z]	<Orie>	... a brand is a promise to customers
[2021-08-17T16:21:53.418Z]	<Orie>	... there are many different kinds of names
[2021-08-17T16:22:02.969Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:22:43.893Z]	<Orie>	... descriptive names, suggestive or associative, arbitrary names, fanciful, inventive, clever, acronyms, geographic and founder based names
[2021-08-17T16:23:12.909Z]	<Orie>	... branding isn't always about you.... its about where you are, and how you are perceived, and your end goal.
[2021-08-17T16:23:22.941Z]	<Orie>	... who is your target audience?
[2021-08-17T16:24:01.699Z]	<Orie>	... naming is under the brand, its part of what is this thing...
[2021-08-17T16:24:35.233Z]	<Orie>	... reflecting on naming, there is a cycle
[2021-08-17T16:25:09.266Z]	<Orie>	... in beginning things have a first name, just to get started... as the product evolves the first name starts to have a gap with where it is today
[2021-08-17T16:25:23.798Z]	<Orie>	... then people want to change the name, since its not being helpful
[2021-08-17T16:25:56.165Z]	<Orie>	... I have noticed a certain group of folks want to use descriptive names and be precise
[2021-08-17T16:26:33.524Z]	<Orie>	... sometimes being descriptive is a bad idea, when you don't know what it is.
[2021-08-17T16:26:52.199Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:26:52.258Z]	<Orie>	... then descriptive names change again...
[2021-08-17T16:27:15.367Z]	<Orie>	... does anyone know the story of the term "Open Source"
[2021-08-17T16:27:19.969Z]	<mprorock>	q+ esr
[2021-08-17T16:27:26.078Z]	<TallTed>	yup
[2021-08-17T16:27:26.394Z]	<Orie>	Cel: I have heard it
[2021-08-17T16:27:39.134Z]	<Orie>	Heather: who coined the term?
[2021-08-17T16:27:41.914Z]	<Brian_Richter>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:27:46.577Z]	<TallTed>	RMS, I believe
[2021-08-17T16:27:47.403Z]	<mprorock>	esr
[2021-08-17T16:27:49.655Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	I think it was a woman
[2021-08-17T16:27:52.017Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	I definitely haven't heard of the origin story of "Open Source"... just assumed it was ESR or someone like that.
[2021-08-17T16:28:05.931Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	https://opensource.com/article/18/2/coining-term-open-source-software
[2021-08-17T16:28:12.040Z]	<Orie>	Heather: it was Christine Peterson
[2021-08-17T16:28:34.441Z]	<Orie>	...  she is my friend
[2021-08-17T16:29:16.787Z]	<Orie>	... the term was used to make the space easier for new folks to understand, and was better than "free software", that focused on code and not price.
[2021-08-17T16:29:48.701Z]	<Orie>	... the name was needed to help the technology become understandable
[2021-08-17T16:30:20.078Z]	<Orie>	... think about your audience
[2021-08-17T16:30:36.572Z]	<Orie>	... maybe we should name things for the folks outside this community, not the folks inside.
[2021-08-17T16:30:40.457Z]	<bobwyman>	There was  a time when we called open source "DECUS tapes...."
[2021-08-17T16:31:07.435Z]	<Orie>	... precision and descriptive names make it hard for outsiders to understand things
[2021-08-17T16:31:12.414Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:31:19.652Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack esr
[2021-08-17T16:31:30.569Z]	<agropper_>	q+
[2021-08-17T16:31:43.957Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack agropper_
[2021-08-17T16:31:53.048Z]	<Orie>	Mike: ESR was first, Christine brought it up at netscape
[2021-08-17T16:32:02.839Z]	<Orie>	Agropper: what are we naming?
[2021-08-17T16:32:05.349Z]	<manu>	q+
[2021-08-17T16:32:16.534Z]	<Orie>	Heather: all the things, including work items
[2021-08-17T16:32:29.477Z]	<mprorock>	scribe correct - ESR was first publication - Christine suggested term originally in a brainstorm session
[2021-08-17T16:32:34.190Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:32:35.705Z]	<Orie>	Agropper: its helpful to name the thing for people who you hope will drive adoption
[2021-08-17T16:32:52.745Z]	<Orie>	.... maybe we should name 1 thing first
[2021-08-17T16:33:17.651Z]	<Orie>	... can we agree that we need an anchor for what we have been calling SSI?
[2021-08-17T16:33:30.544Z]	<Orie>	... do we need an other word for SSI?
[2021-08-17T16:34:25.618Z]	<Orie>	Heather: Christine was not a core member or in a powerful position, and its why she could see the Kool-aid
[2021-08-17T16:34:47.518Z]	<Orie>	... I suspect we won't use the term SSI, but someone outside our community will help name what we are doing....
[2021-08-17T16:35:12.251Z]	<Orie>	... the person who names our work, won't be a part of our work
[2021-08-17T16:35:31.732Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:35:37.810Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack manu
[2021-08-17T16:36:03.038Z]	<Orie>	manu: this is all great... some of things we are naming... I keep hoping some journalist will help us name things
[2021-08-17T16:36:20.741Z]	<Orie>	... I feel that folks inside can't name things
[2021-08-17T16:36:46.015Z]	<Orie>	...  "the web" is what people call HTTP and HTML
[2021-08-17T16:36:56.044Z]	<Orie>	... folks tend not to name the higher order thing
[2021-08-17T16:36:58.193Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-08-17T16:37:07.843Z]	<Orie>	... we should consider the higher order thing
[2021-08-17T16:37:16.084Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:37:18.109Z]	<Orie>	... I hope the term SSI does not catch on
[2021-08-17T16:37:30.616Z]	<Orie>	... maybe there is something better than VCs
[2021-08-17T16:38:04.483Z]	<Orie>	... examples of names: VC-HTTP-API, Linked Data Signatures, Linked Data Proofs, Linked Data Integrity
[2021-08-17T16:38:24.073Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	q+ project code names
[2021-08-17T16:38:24.134Z]	<Orie>	... folks who are not engaged trying to name the thing, for things it does not do
[2021-08-17T16:38:32.698Z]	<bobwyman>	q+
[2021-08-17T16:38:36.067Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:38:41.239Z]	<Orie>	... naming is important, need to consider both sides
[2021-08-17T16:39:06.096Z]	<manu>	I'll scribe for Orie.
[2021-08-17T16:39:08.370Z]	<Orie>	Heather: please be brief
[2021-08-17T16:39:12.350Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Orie
[2021-08-17T16:39:41.142Z]	<manu>	Orie: Naming is one of the hardest things that humans do, it's also one of the most important things. I like what Manu said about the Web... descriptive names have a place, non-descriptive higher order names have a place.
[2021-08-17T16:40:17.401Z]	<manu>	Orie: As an engineer, I require descriptive names, it's how I understand what it is they're trying to do... if they're trying to do HTML but calling it something different, that's a problem for me. It's important not to abandon descriptive names, but it's also important not to stop at them.
[2021-08-17T16:40:59.171Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Andrew_H
[2021-08-17T16:41:01.179Z]	<manu>	Orie: Descriptive names are helpful to update as the thing they're describing requires them to change. You also need bigger picture, fluffier names that are more welcoming. You also don't want to destroy the technical communities ability to also specifically identify what they're talking about.
[2021-08-17T16:41:15.464Z]	<Orie>	Andrew_Hughes: maybe a project code name is useful in the beginning
[2021-08-17T16:41:25.368Z]	<Orie>	+1 to project naming
[2021-08-17T16:41:48.441Z]	<Orie>	Andrew_Hughes: sometimes delaying naming, or descriptive names is useful
[2021-08-17T16:41:56.829Z]	<Orie>	... that can help
[2021-08-17T16:41:59.660Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack bob
[2021-08-17T16:42:14.000Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:42:27.306Z]	<manu>	+1 to what Bob is saying.
[2021-08-17T16:42:41.439Z]	<manu>	Maybe what we're talking about is the "Verifiable Web"?
[2021-08-17T16:42:54.248Z]	<Orie>	Bob: HTML, HTTP are component names... the overall system, the fact that higher order concepts have various other names, is ok
[2021-08-17T16:43:22.960Z]	<Orie>	... the term web predates, some of these technologies, and their assembly occurred
[2021-08-17T16:43:24.814Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	Oooh, I like that Verifiable Web...
[2021-08-17T16:43:42.069Z]	<Orie>	... Web != HTML / HTTP
[2021-08-17T16:44:03.476Z]	<Orie>	... after we put these things together, what is the thing that results from it?
[2021-08-17T16:44:14.223Z]	<Orie>	... what is the emergent system?
[2021-08-17T16:44:33.367Z]	<Orie>	Heather: speakers?
[2021-08-17T16:44:35.728Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:44:50.155Z]	<Orie>	Topic: Branding Tips from Kerri, Kimberly, Moses and Manu
[2021-08-17T16:44:56.740Z]	<agropper_>	The result of this work might be decentralization
[2021-08-17T16:45:02.072Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Kerri is here! :P
[2021-08-17T16:45:08.913Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	She just joined.
[2021-08-17T16:45:20.368Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	Hello :)
[2021-08-17T16:45:23.911Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	•	Name it for the end audience not the builder: Sometimes the end audience are the developers, but oftentimes the end audience are CTOs, CIOs, funders, investors, media, or users who may not be as technically informed. Consider a name that works for developers and end audience. 
•	If possible, stay away from making new acronyms: Acronyms are fast to say & type but take longer to explain. When there’s an excessive amount of acronyms, it’s confusing and perceived to be more difficult to understand.  Ex: Only recently has IPFS shown up at the top of search engine results; in the US, searching for “SSI” brings up social security. 
•	Make it easy to pronounce, descriptive, distinct: Naming is the first part of the facilitating conditions for any tech. People need to be able to find it, spell it, and distinguish it from other technologies. Ex: verifiable credentials is challenging to explain as a standard because credentials are verifiable in all sorts of ways and the phrase “verifiable credential” has its own meaning outside of the standard. Decentralized Identifiers is a more descriptive and distinct name.
[2021-08-17T16:46:31.252Z]	<Orie>	Kerri: Avoid acronyms...
[2021-08-17T16:46:53.599Z]	<Orie>	Can we get a link to deck for notes?
[2021-08-17T16:47:52.343Z]	<Moses>	Yes.
[2021-08-17T16:48:06.833Z]	<Orie>	Kimberly: I echo these points... I am curious about the technology
[2021-08-17T16:48:21.526Z]	<Orie>	... find myself asking a lot of "why?"
[2021-08-17T16:48:24.772Z]	<Moses>	My slides are at: https://www.dropbox.com/s/743p67d2dbeca98/CCG%20naming.pptx?dl=0
[2021-08-17T16:48:33.682Z]	<Kayode_Ezike>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:48:49.048Z]	<Orie>	... its all about adoption, that has to be somewhere when we think about naming
[2021-08-17T16:48:56.383Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:49:13.041Z]	<Orie>	... names are sticky...
[2021-08-17T16:49:28.621Z]	<Kerri_Lemoie>	+1 to sticky names
[2021-08-17T16:49:43.259Z]	<Orie>	... its hard to fix names, sometimes its helpful not to put a name on a thing until you understand it
[2021-08-17T16:50:06.290Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	Project One for One might actually work for credential exchange! :)
[2021-08-17T16:50:21.257Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	LOL Andrew, perfect
[2021-08-17T16:50:21.813Z]	<Orie>	... once the decision is made, we need to support the name.
[2021-08-17T16:50:44.777Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:50:53.660Z]	<Orie>	... its important that voting results be supported
[2021-08-17T16:51:03.065Z]	<Moses>	Book: https://www.amazon.com/Soulful-Branding-Unlock-Hidden-Company/dp/1515114414
[2021-08-17T16:51:15.720Z]	<Wayne_Chang>	present+
[2021-08-17T16:51:33.340Z]	<Orie>	Moses: branding is emotional not logical
[2021-08-17T16:52:08.251Z]	<Orie>	... think visual, and stories
[2021-08-17T16:52:15.804Z]	<Orie>	... keep it short
[2021-08-17T16:52:30.018Z]	<TallTed>	+1000 visually diagrammed benefits!
[2021-08-17T16:52:50.596Z]	<Orie>	... finding the hidden power in your brand, and understanding the subtext
[2021-08-17T16:53:01.547Z]	<Orie>	... we need to think like a republican
[2021-08-17T16:53:30.265Z]	<Orie>	... tap into peoples emotions
[2021-08-17T16:53:56.842Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:53:59.962Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	i see more slides!
[2021-08-17T16:54:09.008Z]	<Andrew_Hughes>	I love the "fire trucks are really water trucks"
[2021-08-17T16:54:11.387Z]	<Juan_Caballero_(Spruce)>	s/ want to/
[2021-08-17T16:54:27.833Z]	<Orie>	"slack is a productivity tool"
[2021-08-17T16:54:36.675Z]	<Orie>	"google theory of negativity"
[2021-08-17T16:54:55.930Z]	<Orie>	Moses: we should consider is this the wild west, tap into the fear
[2021-08-17T16:55:16.391Z]	<Orie>	Manu: we need to access the right emotion, this is about safety
[2021-08-17T16:55:33.747Z]	<Orie>	... verifiable web helps folks feel safe
[2021-08-17T16:56:03.845Z]	<Orie>	... the words, issuer, holder, verifier, verifiable data registry
[2021-08-17T16:56:18.236Z]	<Orie>	... we named things by committee...
[2021-08-17T16:56:29.836Z]	<Orie>	... surprisingly successful
[2021-08-17T16:56:47.346Z]	<Orie>	... we needed to get buy in from the folks who participate
[2021-08-17T16:57:11.132Z]	<Orie>	... everyone needs to be able to see the data
[2021-08-17T16:57:19.365Z]	<Orie>	... it does not always work
[2021-08-17T16:57:29.701Z]	<Orie>	... voting is just 1 more input
[2021-08-17T16:58:04.892Z]	<Orie>	... we avoid simple majority decisions
[2021-08-17T16:58:05.722Z]	<bobwyman>	The eventual common name for what emerges from this work will probably be more descriptive or evocative of the "experience" of using the components rather than describing any of the qualities of those components.
[2021-08-17T16:58:27.493Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:58:31.449Z]	<Orie>	... the goal is to get the community to agree too what to call things
[2021-08-17T16:58:37.325Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T16:58:45.668Z]	<Moses>	q+
[2021-08-17T16:58:47.165Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-08-17T16:58:57.600Z]	<Orie>	Heather: the point was to be proactive
[2021-08-17T16:59:00.824Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Moses
[2021-08-17T16:59:22.548Z]	<Orie>	Moses: if we ask Jerome to come in, it would be useful... however, we would need to give him something
[2021-08-17T16:59:38.368Z]	<Orie>	... maybe we trade with him / time for time?
[2021-08-17T16:59:50.897Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	ack Orie
[2021-08-17T16:59:54.328Z]	<Heather_Vescent>	q?
[2021-08-17T17:00:26.184Z]	<manu>	Orie: Sometimes there are "standards" and "community perspective" on them, and then wider non-technical stakeholder, and then specific companies that build a brand on the monopoly or interpretation on those standards.
[2021-08-17T17:01:14.481Z]	<manu>	Orie: What I've seen is one community using wording that latches on to standards brand, and there will be people building businesses on top of open standards, we should be sensitive to existing branding, but think about how people will brand their services to their customers.
[2021-08-17T17:01:25.428Z]	<manu>	Orie: We shouldn't attempt to pick the word that they use so we give them that ability to do that.
[2021-08-17T17:01:48.999Z]	<Moses>	bye all!
