Thanks to Kaliya Young for scribing this week! The minutes
for this week's Verifiable Credentials HTTP API telecon are now available:

https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-08-03-vchttpapi 

Full text of the discussion follows for W3C archival purposes.
Audio from the meeting is available as well (link provided below).

----------------------------------------------------------------
Verifiable Credentials HTTP API Telecon Minutes for 2021-08-03

Agenda:
  https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0003.html
Topics:
  1. Use Cases Update
  2. Pull Requests
  3. Issue Processing
Organizer:
  Manu Sporny
Scribe:
  Kaliya Young
Present:
  Manu Sporny, Kaliya Young, Justin Richer, Ted Thibodeau, Michael 
  Herman, Mahmoud Alkhraishi, Mike Prorock, Brent Zundel, Aaron 
  Coburn, Eric Schuh, Joe Andrieu, Juan Caballero, Tobias Looker, 
  Dmitri Zagidulin, David Chadwick, Orie Steele, Adrian Gropper, 
  David I. Lehn, Kristina Yasuda, Charles E. Lehner
Audio:
  https://w3c-ccg.github.io/meetings/2021-08-03/audio.ogg

Kaliya Young is scribing.
<bumblefudge> thanks kaliya!
Manu Sporny:  Welcome to VC-HTTP-API - name will be changed - 
  vote soon
<justin_richer> Call it VH ðŸ¤˜
Agenda - usecases, pull requests - fairly straightforward
Michael Herman:  I would like some discussion about answers to my 
  questions asked on list.
Manu Sporny:  Very good questions
<bumblefudge> ^ Eric and I were just talking about it at the 
  use-case meeting with Joe
Manu Sporny:  It keeps get narrowed own
Eric Schuh:  Main topic of use-case update talking about scope 
  differently then we have been.
Manu Sporny:  Asking for new folks to call...doesn't appear to be 
  any.

Topic: Use Cases Update

Manu Sporny:  Next use-cases update - Eric, juan, joe
Eric Schuh: 
  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit#heading=h.t03jb3hhyhc2
Eric Schuh:  Document we are referencing page 34 - start of 
  revision getting into github is goal.
Eric Schuh:  We want to talk about the abstract sections - terms 
  issuer role terms service
Eric Schuh:  We tried to get a high level scope on the various 
  APIs - one challenge with the use-cases not having a well defined 
  scope and where the gaps are in the use-case.
Joe Andrieu:  We had touched on this before - the party calling 
  the verifier API not the verifier. we used role because that is 
  in the spec.
Joe Andrieu:  I think we have convergence - on issuer and 
  verifier aPI
Joe Andrieu:  Issuer role how it talks to Issuer service.
Juan Caballero: Note: one pages 4-6, we have the diagrams of how 
  these three "roles" map to various components and services
<bumblefudge> on*
<bumblefudge> s/one/on/*
Joe Andrieu:  How the issuer role/service interacts with the 
  holder's wallet - or the software that is particiapting as wallet 
  (CHAPI/DIDComm right now).
Issuer API is behind trust boundary.
Joe Andrieu:  Question what is out of scope. Role issuer talking 
  to verifier - not a thing.
Joe Andrieu:  One caviate one verifier service talking to issuer 
  service - may encompas status-check mechanism. While we don't 
  want to put in the phone home mechanism - here is the privacy 
  respecting way to have that use-case met. Kinda the issuer 
  talking to verifer - as long as done indirectly.
Juan Caballero:  Only add that the terminal logical moras - I've 
  been following.  Holder-holder  service-holder finding a hard 
  time finding common ground I hope you find this.
Manu Sporny:  Clarifying question - what questions do you have 
  for the group.
Eric Schuh:  One that came up - speaking to holder-holder 
  interaction ok to be modeled - recipient holder - and reciving a 
  verification from the sending holder.
Joe Andrieu:  Anyone can do any of these roles.
Holder - can act as a verifier.
Person in the middle in one part of the transaction is acting as 
  a verifier.
<orie> Verifier's that don't store content also are not holders.
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie
<justin_richer> +q
<dmitriz> @DavidC - mentally translate RP to Verifier :)
David I. Lehn:  [Missed some stuff] openID connect protocol.
<bumblefudge> [bound] = VC; [unbound] = bearer tokens?
Michael Herman:  Bound credentials - unbound credentials (no 
  subject ID) both valid in VC spec. Michael is interested in 
  unbound credentails - invoices and purchase orders. complex 
  documetns are not just extension of subject.
<orie> no juan, unbound credentials don't have a subject 
  identifier.
Michael differnet protocols for bound vs. unbound
<bumblefudge> thx orie
<davidc> @identitywoman. "When we are using the OIDC Protocol to 
  pass a VP from a holder (and this has been defined now in the 
  draft extension) then the recipient is the RP, and the RP will 
  call the Verifier API
Justin Richer:  There are a few ways that this family of APIs can 
  plug in - who is going to be issuer or holder or veriifer or IdP 
  and RP etc. not to contradict what David was saying - one of a 
  number of different dimensions. how do you overlay these things 
  with each other.
Orie Steele: +1 To what Justin is saying,  VC-HTTP-API ... OIDC 
  can be configured differently per use case / requirements
<justin_richer> requesting party is not relying party! This is 
  long established in the UMA space. (but naming is hard)
<eric_schuh> "Requesting" implies that that role will always be 
  the initiator and I don't think that is the case in many 
  verification use cases. Is "Recipient" a better term?
Manu Sporny:  In the VC spec we call this thing a requesting 
  party - client is acting in a role and server is acting in a 
  role.. useful to think of it in that way. I take ted's concern if 
  you are recieivng something and not verifiying you are not a 
  verifier.
<justin_richer> and "relying party" is a very specific term from 
  the IDAM space
<orie> presentation "sender" and "receiver"
Manu Sporny:  What kind of concrete decision was use-case team 
  hoping to make.
Mike Prorock: +1 Orie
Eric Schuh:  The verifier role weather it becomes requesting 
  recipient reciever. we went with it (but didn't like it) but went 
  cause it went with the way the VC community does.
<orie> I agree that the word "verifier" is problematic... if the 
  verifier can store or not store, or verify or not verify
Eric Schuh:  Can we get consesnsu of in scope vs. out of scope - 
  under different api - issuer role to issuer software is in scope.
<orie> currently there is no way for a "verifieir" to "request a 
  presentation"
<bumblefudge> maybe i'm being reductive, but if they store, they 
  are a verifier-holder; if they don't, they're just a verifier; if 
  they're not verifying, are they even conforming to this spec?
<orie> there is a way for a "holder to submit a presentation to a 
  verifier/holder"
Eric Schuh:  More time to drill into use-cases that we are 
  missing. we have some gaps in currently accepted usecases. they 
  don't cover all teh interactions. but hard to tell we don't know 
  what the scope is
Orie Steele: +1 To what you said juan
More tight scope around this work we need more time. Do folks 
  want more time/30 min on next call to talk about specific scoping 
  proposals.
On the mailing list and on to next week  - make some scoping 
  proposals.
Joe Andrieu: +1 To feedback.
Manu Sporny:  Using stuff already out of scope might be helpful 
  to folks.
<eric_schuh> Proposed out of scope at this point! If you have a 
  good use case for something struck out let us know!
Manu Sporny:  Concrete proposal - for people to put things in/out 
  of scope
Make a focused proposal in/out of scope.
<bumblefudge> yes, scope proposals on CCG list using these terms 
  and the diagrams on pages 4-6 would be VERY HELPFUL.  scope 
  proposals NOT doing so would be NOT very helpful
Joe Andrieu: :+1:
<bumblefudge> nope
Manu Sporny:  Light support for that next week
<bumblefudge> just email us
<bumblefudge> @joe maybe stop screensharing, sometimes it makes 
  jitsi gobble up too much memory
<bumblefudge> (or whoever is screensharing)

Topic: Pull Requests

Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/211
Manu Sporny:  Pull requests - 211
<joe_andrieu> (Right, someone else pulled it up)
Manu Sporny:  Revocable indicator - nis agreed to this.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/224
Manu Sporny:  Orie i will make sure he interprets what I'm 
  talking about correctly.
Manu Sporny:  Raise this PR with resolutions we have made so far.
Manu Sporny:  224 Rather then leaving it blank - working group 
  needs to write stuff to move resoultions into spec so things can 
  go in a certain direction.
Manu Sporny:  Feeback or concerns. spec editing perspective. 
  putting things like this inside spec-tec vs an issue tracker - 
  not as useful as it migth seem that said nothing specifically 
  prohibitive of somethign like this
Joe Andrieu:  Question is this PR the right place to challenge 
  the resolution that happened in the session that was a majority 
  decision. would like some other group review it. Things being 
  recorded as consensus resolution- free to raise concerns/issues.
Mike Prorock: +1 Joe
Joe Andrieu:  Objected at the time - this isn't a task force - 
  this isn't a working group - there isn't a chair.
Manu Sporny:  I dno't want to end up in a meta discussoin
Manu Sporny:  Would like broader working group to review.
<mprorock> I will second a proposal to revisit decisions with 
  either a consensus or supermajority vote
Joe Andrieu:  Would like to see broader resolutoin
Orie Steele:  Not sure what I'm saying is true. with CCG - you 
  can raise issues with chairs of CCG.
Orie Steele:  Any work on any work item that believe there is not 
  consensus - can ping chairs and can request arbitration of teh 
  chairs.
<orie> 51% attacks strike again!
Mike Prorock:  Welcome input from others - chair should mediate - 
  I thought we should be doing a super majority - recall raised at 
  tiem.
<justin_richer> any process that can be stopped by a single 
  participant is not "consensus", that's "unanimity".
Mike Prorock:  I have some concerns about that
<justin_richer> "consensus" needs to be robust against some 
  number of -1's to survive
((Consensus by the faciltiator definition - means everyone 
  agrees))
Joe Andrieu:  I am going to raise objections in the issues
Joe Andrieu:  It was a can of worms and I'm upset about it being 
  railroaded through - in appropriate and unfortuate.
Brent Zundel:  Comments on process may apply on working group and 
  what process those chairs have established - can those be applied 
  to work item or community working gorup - looking at work item 
  document this doesn't apply to
<brent> that was my point exactly, thank you Joe
Joe Andrieu:  I wrote the current charter - standard for 
  consensus - principled objections - manu is not chair moderating 
  these meetings. WE don't have a formal process we are operating 
  processless.
Manu Sporny:  You know how to do this make a concrete proposal
Manu Sporny:  Hearing do not merge.
Will not merge once we have clarity

Topic: Issue Processing

Manu Sporny:  Issue processing
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/44
Manu Sporny:  Issue 44
Should we link to implementations
This should be in the VCHTTPAPI - test suite
Orie Steele:  Sufficent to put into test suites. Orie is doing 
  that.
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/46
Manu Sporny:  Consider streetcred API -
Orie Steele:  Would like to be discussed at call.
<bumblefudge> should we invite Michael or Riley?
Manu Sporny:  Trying to schedule for Aug 17th
<bumblefudge> hehe the issue has been open for a while
Manu Sporny:  Should invite trinsic folks to discuss
Orie Steele:  Will reach out to them.
<bumblefudge> i'll do it
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/48
Manu Sporny:  Why believe important to return credentail to 
  internal holder...lots of engagement.
<orie> how to build an API 101...
<mprorock> use of "internal" makes me think this is stale
<mprorock> and that this pre-dates decision to follow restful 
  practices
<identitywoman>	orie: http -> client request from server - server 
  returns to client.
Manu Sporny:  What else would we do other then that.
Dmitri Zagidulin:  Breaks out reqeust and respnose bundle. They 
  are different.
<bumblefudge> i think that Aries is trying to support non-HTTP, 
  async, one-way transports, etc
Dmitri Zagidulin:  That is kind of what we want to get out.
<orie> guys, if we can just adopt DIDComm we can abandon REST and 
  request response, and just implement aries RFCs :)
<bumblefudge> "profile" sounds good to me
Dmitri Zagidulin: +1 To what Juan said (re highly async, one-way 
  type of protocol)
<bumblefudge> thanks!
Orie Steele: 
  https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-presentation-exchange 
  (solved this, for presentation exchange)
Manu Sporny:  Dmitri and juan are going to help
<bumblefudge> bumblefudge
<bumblefudge> will it hurt?
<dmitriz> @Orie - what's the rendered link for that, btw? 
  (waci-pex)
<mprorock> Juan - we try and maximize pain
<orie> its broken 
  https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-presentation-exchange/issues/78
Manu Sporny: https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/49
Manu Sporny:  Next issue is issue 49
Why do we believe the issuer retains a copy of all issued 
  credentials.
Orie Steele:  Current APIs don't assume statefulness
Manu Sporny:  Maybe there is no assuption - they retain a copy.
Manu Sporny:  Revocation lists imply status in issuer API
<orie> ^ imply "statefulness and persistance"
David I. Lehn:  You are saying you are making no assuptoins but 
  in terms of the API you are making implicit assuptoins about what 
  it can do. You are making implicit assuptoins that are not 
  documented.
<orie> lost audio
Michael Herman:  Part of this process is mimicing real life - 
  provicne issuing DL or country issuing passport.
Michael Herman:  They do keep a copy - they have copies of them 
  or ability to re-generate.
Orie Steele: +1 To discussing "recommendations for retention, 
  statefulness, and persistance"
Michael Herman:  It is assumed it will retain information for it 
  to maintain API - when maintaining revocation lists it will
<orie> it is a much longer discussion
Michael Herman:  We don't need to link with the revocation list 
  api
Orie Steele:  Reading what we have today it is undefined behavior 
  - cases where you would like it to be defined positively from a 
  negative perspective or positive perspective.
Orie Steele:  Both valid use-cases it is undefined behavior today 
  - we are planning to define some of that behavior.
I heard concern about the issue being defined in a way for honey 
  pot of credentails.
Orie Steele:  I don't think we are planning on defining that 
  behavior.
<orie> for example, our prototype that passes all the tests, does 
  not support persistance at all.
Manu Sporny:  Writing issue out
<orie> please closee this issu
Manu Sporny:  Do we want to close this issue - or keep open as 
  tracking issue
<orie> and open a better issue without confusion
<tallted> I'd hold open until new issue opens
Ore: please close issue and create a new issue better 
  articulated.
<orie> agree with Ted
<orie> only close if there is a better issue to track it
Manu Sporny:  Writing in issue create better issue to track 
  concern. group concerned it is vague.
Manu Sporny:  Please put scoping on mailing list - and go through 
  Joe's concrete proposal on PRs and issues.
