[2021-08-03T20:00:25.272Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:00:25.272Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	Chair: Manu
[2021-08-03T20:00:25.272Z]	<Manu_Sporny>	scribe: identitywoman
[2021-08-03T20:00:25.273Z]	<Justin_Richer>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:01:03.899Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:01:15.204Z]	<TallTed>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:01:15.686Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:01:24.777Z]	<Mahmoud>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:01:44.233Z]	<mprorock>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:02:14.120Z]	<Kaliya>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:02:20.806Z]	<Brent>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:02:45.167Z]	<Aaron_Coburn>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:03:11.180Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:03:44.643Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:03:59.496Z]	<bumblefudge>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:04:57.876Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:05:07.435Z]	<bumblefudge>	thanks kaliya!
[2021-08-03T20:05:35.452Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:05:52.024Z]	<identitywoman>	Manu: welcome to VC-HTTP-API - name will be changed - vote soon
[2021-08-03T20:05:43.589Z]	<Justin_Richer>	Call it VH ðŸ¤˜
[2021-08-03T20:05:53.299Z]	<manu>	Agenda: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2021Aug/0003.html
[2021-08-03T20:06:34.864Z]	<identitywoman>	agenda - usecases, pull requests - fairly straightforward
[2021-08-03T20:06:47.847Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	q+
[2021-08-03T20:06:53.916Z]	<zagidulin>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:06:54.629Z]	<identitywoman>	Michael: I would like some discussion about answers to my questions asked on list.
[2021-08-03T20:07:04.821Z]	<identitywoman>	Manu: very good questions
[2021-08-03T20:07:08.320Z]	<bumblefudge>	^ Eric and I were just talking about it at the use-case meeting with Joe
[2021-08-03T20:07:22.146Z]	<identitywoman>	Manu: it keeps get narrowed own
[2021-08-03T20:07:37.385Z]	<identitywoman>	schuh: main topic of use-case update talking about scope differently then we have been.
[2021-08-03T20:07:55.221Z]	<David_Chadwick>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:08:05.656Z]	<identitywoman>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:08:27.043Z]	<identitywoman>	Manu: asking for new folks to call...doesn't appear to be any.
[2021-08-03T20:08:29.556Z]	<manu>	Topic: Use Cases Update
[2021-08-03T20:08:40.410Z]	<identitywoman>	Manu: next use-cases update - Eric, juan, joe
[2021-08-03T20:08:45.503Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-u0_Ub6feiX6DH3jXFJFjt6n3CwKGpkmC3VISqDkWL4/edit#heading=h.t03jb3hhyhc2
[2021-08-03T20:08:55.576Z]	<DavidC>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:09:08.885Z]	<identitywoman>	schuh: document we are referencing page 34 - start of revision getting into github is goal.
[2021-08-03T20:09:39.367Z]	<identitywoman>	schuh: we want to talk about the abstract sections - terms issuer role terms service
[2021-08-03T20:10:09.388Z]	<identitywoman>	schuh: we tried to get a high level scope on the various APIs - one challenge with the use-cases not having a well defined scope and where the gaps are in the use-case.
[2021-08-03T20:10:48.905Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: we had touched on this before - the party calling the verifier API not the verifier. we used role because that is in the spec.
[2021-08-03T20:10:55.616Z]	<Orie>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:11:21.672Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: I think we have convergence - on issuer and verifier aPI
[2021-08-03T20:11:41.650Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: issuer role how it talks to Issuer service.
[2021-08-03T20:11:49.153Z]	<Adrian_Gropper>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:11:55.795Z]	<bumblefudge>	Note: one pages 4-6, we have the diagrams of how these three "roles" map to various components and services
[2021-08-03T20:11:58.145Z]	<bumblefudge>	on*
[2021-08-03T20:12:06.982Z]	<bumblefudge>	s/one/on/*
[2021-08-03T20:12:12.259Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: how the issuer role/service interacts with the holder's wallet - or the software that is particiapting as wallet (CHAPI/DIDComm right now).
[2021-08-03T20:12:22.900Z]	<identitywoman>	Issuer API is behind trust boundary.
[2021-08-03T20:12:42.903Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: question what is out of scope. Role issuer talking to verifier - not a thing.
[2021-08-03T20:13:37.584Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: one caviate one verifier service talking to issuer service - may encompas status-check mechanism. While we don't want to put in the phone home mechanism - here is the privacy respecting way to have that use-case met. Kinda the issuer talking to verifer - as long as done indirectly.
[2021-08-03T20:13:50.858Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-03T20:13:54.246Z]	<manu>	ack eric
[2021-08-03T20:14:06.121Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:14:21.575Z]	<identitywoman>	juan: only add that the terminal logical moras - I've been following.  Holder-holder  service-holder finding a hard time finding common ground I hope you find this.
[2021-08-03T20:14:53.825Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: Clarifying question - what questions do you have for the group.
[2021-08-03T20:15:26.332Z]	<identitywoman>	schuh: one that came up - speaking to holder-holder interaction ok to be modeled - recipient holder - and reciving a verification from the sending holder.
[2021-08-03T20:16:13.104Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: anyone can do any of these roles.
[2021-08-03T20:16:19.765Z]	<identitywoman>	holder - can act as a verifier.
[2021-08-03T20:16:35.774Z]	<identitywoman>	person in the middle in one part of the transaction is acting as a verifier.
[2021-08-03T20:16:37.784Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-03T20:16:39.174Z]	<TallTed>	q+
[2021-08-03T20:16:50.080Z]	<DavidC>	q+
[2021-08-03T20:16:55.425Z]	<manu>	ack TallTed
[2021-08-03T20:17:14.902Z]	<manu>	ack DavidC
[2021-08-03T20:17:15.733Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:17:16.101Z]	<Orie>	Verifier's that don't store content also are not holders.
[2021-08-03T20:17:32.329Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie
[2021-08-03T20:17:50.775Z]	<Justin_Richer>	+q
[2021-08-03T20:17:54.750Z]	<dmitriz>	@DavidC - mentally translate RP to Verifier :)
[2021-08-03T20:18:14.415Z]	<identitywoman>	David: [missed some stuff] openID connect protocol.
[2021-08-03T20:18:50.844Z]	<bumblefudge>	[bound] = VC; [unbound] = bearer tokens?
[2021-08-03T20:19:15.626Z]	<identitywoman>	Michael: bound credentials - unbound credentials (no subject ID) both valid in VC spec. Michael is interested in unbound credentails - invoices and purchase orders. complex documetns are not just extension of subject.
[2021-08-03T20:19:20.278Z]	<Orie>	no juan, unbound credentials don't have a subject identifier.
[2021-08-03T20:19:38.658Z]	<identitywoman>	Michael differnet protocols for bound vs. unbound
[2021-08-03T20:19:47.224Z]	<Kristina>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:19:49.495Z]	<bumblefudge>	thx orie
[2021-08-03T20:19:51.124Z]	<DavidC>	@identitywoman. "When we are using the OIDC Protocol to pass a VP from a holder (and this has been defined now in the draft extension) then the recipient is the RP, and the RP will call the Verifier API
[2021-08-03T20:19:57.352Z]	<manu>	q+ to mention that we said "Requesting Party" in the VC spec.
[2021-08-03T20:20:01.094Z]	<manu>	ack justin
[2021-08-03T20:20:40.494Z]	<identitywoman>	Justin: there are a few ways that this family of APIs can plug in - who is going to be issuer or holder or veriifer or IdP and RP etc. not to contradict what David was saying - one of a number of different dimensions. how do you overlay these things with each other.
[2021-08-03T20:20:40.677Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-08-03T20:20:45.848Z]	<Orie>	+1 to what Justin is saying,  VC-HTTP-API ... OIDC can be configured differently per use case / requirements
[2021-08-03T20:21:29.311Z]	<Justin_Richer>	requesting party is not relying party! This is long established in the UMA space. (but naming is hard)
[2021-08-03T20:21:54.602Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	"Requesting" implies that that role will always be the initiator and I don't think that is the case in many verification use cases. Is "Recipient" a better term?
[2021-08-03T20:22:05.681Z]	<identitywoman>	Manu: in the VC spec we call this thing a requesting party - client is acting in a role and server is acting in a role.. useful to think of it in that way. I take ted's concern if you are recieivng something and not verifiying you are not a verifier.
[2021-08-03T20:22:08.130Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-03T20:22:11.770Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	q+
[2021-08-03T20:22:13.790Z]	<Justin_Richer>	and "relying party" is a very specific term from the IDAM space
[2021-08-03T20:22:14.360Z]	<Orie>	presentation "sender" and "receiver"
[2021-08-03T20:22:27.168Z]	<manu>	ack eric
[2021-08-03T20:22:27.920Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: what kind of concrete decision was use-case team hoping to make.
[2021-08-03T20:22:28.083Z]	<mprorock>	+1 orie
[2021-08-03T20:23:00.566Z]	<identitywoman>	schuh: the verifier role weather it becomes requesting recipient reciever. we went with it (but didn't like it) but went cause it went with the way the VC community does.
[2021-08-03T20:23:31.301Z]	<Orie>	I agree that the word "verifier" is problematic... if the verifier can store or not store, or verify or not verify
[2021-08-03T20:24:05.360Z]	<identitywoman>	schuh: can we get consesnsu of in scope vs. out of scope - under different api - issuer role to issuer software is in scope.
[2021-08-03T20:24:09.586Z]	<Orie>	currently there is no way for a "verifieir" to "request a presentation"
[2021-08-03T20:24:12.538Z]	<manu>	q+ to shift conversation to "scope" -- do we need to spend a call talking about holder scoping?
[2021-08-03T20:24:27.848Z]	<bumblefudge>	maybe i'm being reductive, but if they store, they are a verifier-holder; if they don't, they're just a verifier; if they're not verifying, are they even conforming to this spec?
[2021-08-03T20:24:30.950Z]	<Orie>	there is a way for a "holder to submit a presentation to a verifier/holder"
[2021-08-03T20:24:42.955Z]	<identitywoman>	schuh: more time to drill into use-cases that we are missing. we have some gaps in currently accepted usecases. they don't cover all teh interactions. but hard to tell we don't know what the scope is
[2021-08-03T20:25:19.876Z]	<Orie>	+1 to what you said juan
[2021-08-03T20:25:20.336Z]	<identitywoman>	more tight scope around this work we need more time. Do folks want more time/30 min on next call to talk about specific scoping proposals.
[2021-08-03T20:25:34.863Z]	<identitywoman>	on the mailing list and on to next week  - make some scoping proposals.
[2021-08-03T20:26:24.038Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	+1 to feedback.
[2021-08-03T20:26:29.279Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: using stuff already out of scope might be helpful to folks.
[2021-08-03T20:26:35.168Z]	<Eric_Schuh>	Proposed out of scope at this point! If you have a good use case for something struck out let us know!
[2021-08-03T20:26:42.719Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: concrete proposal - for people to put things in/out of scope
[2021-08-03T20:26:53.113Z]	<identitywoman>	make a focused proposal in/out of scope.
[2021-08-03T20:26:58.505Z]	<bumblefudge>	yes, scope proposals on CCG list using these terms and the diagrams on pages 4-6 would be VERY HELPFUL.  scope proposals NOT doing so would be NOT very helpful
[2021-08-03T20:27:06.081Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	:+1:
[2021-08-03T20:27:34.618Z]	<bumblefudge>	nope
[2021-08-03T20:27:35.926Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: light support for that next week
[2021-08-03T20:27:36.365Z]	<bumblefudge>	just email us
[2021-08-03T20:27:55.734Z]	<bumblefudge>	@joe maybe stop screensharing, sometimes it makes jitsi gobble up too much memory
[2021-08-03T20:28:08.150Z]	<bumblefudge>	(or whoever is screensharing)
[2021-08-03T20:28:49.218Z]	<manu>	Topic: Pull Requests
[2021-08-03T20:28:56.053Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/211
[2021-08-03T20:29:00.087Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: pull requests - 211
[2021-08-03T20:29:01.967Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	(Right, someone else pulled it up)
[2021-08-03T20:29:25.126Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: revocable indicator - nis agreed to this.
[2021-08-03T20:29:39.460Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/224
[2021-08-03T20:29:44.705Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: orie i will make sure he interprets what I'm talking about correctly.
[2021-08-03T20:29:57.750Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: raise this PR with resolutions we have made so far.
[2021-08-03T20:30:30.012Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: 224 rather then leaving it blank - working group needs to write stuff to move resoultions into spec so things can go in a certain direction.
[2021-08-03T20:30:31.532Z]	<Justin_Richer>	q+
[2021-08-03T20:30:36.553Z]	<manu>	ack manu
[2021-08-03T20:30:37.811Z]	<manu>	ack justin
[2021-08-03T20:30:40.723Z]	<Joe_Andrieu>	q+ to talk about process
[2021-08-03T20:31:17.086Z]	<manu>	ack joe
[2021-08-03T20:31:20.252Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: feeback or concerns. spec editing perspective. putting things like this inside spec-tec vs an issue tracker - not as useful as it migth seem that said nothing specifically prohibitive of somethign like this
[2021-08-03T20:32:03.857Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: question is this PR the right place to challenge the resolution that happened in the session that was a majority decision. would like some other group review it. Things being recorded as consensus resolution- free to raise concerns/issues.
[2021-08-03T20:32:25.126Z]	<mprorock>	+1 joe
[2021-08-03T20:32:39.743Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: objected at the time - this isn't a task force - this isn't a working group - there isn't a chair.
[2021-08-03T20:32:50.243Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: I dno't want to end up in a meta discussoin
[2021-08-03T20:33:09.118Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: would like broader working group to review.
[2021-08-03T20:33:28.051Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-08-03T20:33:33.105Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-08-03T20:33:35.126Z]	<mprorock>	I will second a proposal to revisit decisions with either a consensus or supermajority vote
[2021-08-03T20:33:37.748Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: would like to see broader resolutoin
[2021-08-03T20:33:59.312Z]	<Michael_Herman_(Trusted_Digital_Web)>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:33:59.506Z]	<identitywoman>	orie: not sure what I'm saying is true. with CCG - you can raise issues with chairs of CCG.
[2021-08-03T20:34:03.293Z]	<mprorock>	q+
[2021-08-03T20:34:26.862Z]	<manu>	ack mpro
[2021-08-03T20:34:30.233Z]	<identitywoman>	orie: any work on any work item that believe there is not consensus - can ping chairs and can request arbitration of teh chairs.
[2021-08-03T20:35:17.784Z]	<Orie>	51% attacks strike again!
[2021-08-03T20:35:29.152Z]	<identitywoman>	MProrock: welcome input from others - chair should mediate - I thought we should be doing a super majority - recall raised at tiem.
[2021-08-03T20:35:40.053Z]	<Justin_Richer>	any process that can be stopped by a single participant is not "consensus", that's "unanimity".
[2021-08-03T20:35:51.684Z]	<identitywoman>	MProrock: I have some concerns about that
[2021-08-03T20:35:58.478Z]	<Justin_Richer>	"consensus" needs to be robust against some number of -1's to survive
[2021-08-03T20:36:09.586Z]	<identitywoman>	((consensus by the faciltiator definition - means everyone agrees))
[2021-08-03T20:36:28.644Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: I am going to raise objections in the issues
[2021-08-03T20:36:32.202Z]	<Brent>	q+ to comment on process
[2021-08-03T20:36:54.075Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: it was a can of worms and I'm upset about it being railroaded through - in appropriate and unfortuate.
[2021-08-03T20:37:28.706Z]	<Tobias_Looker>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:37:46.983Z]	<identitywoman>	Brent: comments on process may apply on working group and what process those chairs have established - can those be applied to work item or community working gorup - looking at work item document this doesn't apply to
[2021-08-03T20:38:23.112Z]	<Brent>	that was my point exactly, thank you Joe
[2021-08-03T20:38:30.144Z]	<identitywoman>	andrieu: I wrote the current charter - standard for consensus - principled objections - manu is not chair moderating these meetings. WE don't have a formal process we are operating processless.
[2021-08-03T20:38:50.971Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: you know how to do this make a concrete proposal
[2021-08-03T20:39:01.125Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: hearing do not merge.
[2021-08-03T20:39:22.465Z]	<identitywoman>	will not merge once we have clarity
[2021-08-03T20:39:52.120Z]	<manu>	Topic: Issue Processing
[2021-08-03T20:39:56.457Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: issue processing
[2021-08-03T20:40:06.293Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/44
[2021-08-03T20:40:15.591Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: issue 44
[2021-08-03T20:40:16.967Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-08-03T20:40:20.478Z]	<identitywoman>	 should we link to implementations
[2021-08-03T20:40:27.335Z]	<manu>	ack brent
[2021-08-03T20:40:33.206Z]	<manu>	ack orie
[2021-08-03T20:40:46.719Z]	<identitywoman>	this should be in the VCHTTPAPI - test suite
[2021-08-03T20:40:58.783Z]	<identitywoman>	orie: sufficent to put into test suites. Orie is doing that.
[2021-08-03T20:41:30.651Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/46
[2021-08-03T20:41:49.737Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: consider streetcred API -
[2021-08-03T20:41:58.706Z]	<identitywoman>	orie: would like to be discussed at call.
[2021-08-03T20:42:19.575Z]	<bumblefudge>	should we invite Michael or Riley?
[2021-08-03T20:42:21.103Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: trying to schedule for Aug 17th
[2021-08-03T20:42:34.654Z]	<bumblefudge>	hehe the issue has been open for a while
[2021-08-03T20:42:35.677Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: should invite trinsic folks to discuss
[2021-08-03T20:42:48.482Z]	<identitywoman>	orie: will reach out to them.
[2021-08-03T20:42:48.992Z]	<bumblefudge>	i'll do it
[2021-08-03T20:43:32.538Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/48
[2021-08-03T20:43:58.233Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: why believe important to return credentail to internal holder...lots of engagement.
[2021-08-03T20:43:58.264Z]	<Orie>	how to build an API 101...
[2021-08-03T20:44:11.067Z]	<mprorock>	use of "internal" makes me think this is stale
[2021-08-03T20:44:26.797Z]	<mprorock>	and that this pre-dates decision to follow restful practices
[2021-08-03T20:44:45.914Z]	<identitywoman>	orie: http -> client request from server - server returns to client.
[2021-08-03T20:44:57.224Z]	<dmitriz>	q+
[2021-08-03T20:44:57.390Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: what else would we do other then that.
[2021-08-03T20:46:21.550Z]	<identitywoman>	dmitri: breaks out reqeust and respnose bundle. They are different.
[2021-08-03T20:46:23.485Z]	<bumblefudge>	i think that Aries is trying to support non-HTTP, async, one-way transports, etc
[2021-08-03T20:46:29.206Z]	<identitywoman>	dmitri: that is kind of what we want to get out.
[2021-08-03T20:46:56.151Z]	<Charles_E._Lehner>	present+
[2021-08-03T20:46:56.202Z]	<Orie>	guys, if we can just adopt DIDComm we can abandon REST and request response, and just implement aries RFCs :)
[2021-08-03T20:47:12.757Z]	<bumblefudge>	"profile" sounds good to me
[2021-08-03T20:47:31.061Z]	<dmitriz>	+1 to what Juan said (re highly async, one-way type of protocol)
[2021-08-03T20:47:52.974Z]	<bumblefudge>	thanks!
[2021-08-03T20:48:02.946Z]	<Orie>	https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-presentation-exchange (solved this, for presentation exchange)
[2021-08-03T20:48:03.759Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: dmitri and juan are going to help
[2021-08-03T20:48:14.503Z]	<bumblefudge>	bumblefudge
[2021-08-03T20:48:37.310Z]	<bumblefudge>	will it hurt?
[2021-08-03T20:48:44.740Z]	<dmitriz>	@Orie - what's the rendered link for that, btw? (waci-pex)
[2021-08-03T20:48:54.194Z]	<mprorock>	Juan - we try and maximize pain
[2021-08-03T20:49:05.106Z]	<Orie>	its broken https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-presentation-exchange/issues/78
[2021-08-03T20:49:22.244Z]	<manu>	https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/issues/49
[2021-08-03T20:49:23.936Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: next issue is issue 49
[2021-08-03T20:50:03.211Z]	<identitywoman>	why do we believe the issuer retains a copy of all issued credentials.
[2021-08-03T20:50:27.912Z]	<identitywoman>	orie: current APIs don't assume statefulness
[2021-08-03T20:50:52.930Z]	<dmitriz>	q-
[2021-08-03T20:50:53.596Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: maybe there is no assuption - they retain a copy.
[2021-08-03T20:51:15.115Z]	<DavidC>	q+
[2021-08-03T20:51:43.445Z]	<manu>	ack DavidC
[2021-08-03T20:51:44.773Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: revocation lists imply status in issuer API
[2021-08-03T20:52:03.636Z]	<Orie>	^ imply "statefulness and persistance"
[2021-08-03T20:52:13.527Z]	<identitywoman>	David: you are saying you are making no assuptoins but in terms of the API you are making implicit assuptoins about what it can do. You are making implicit assuptoins that are not documented.
[2021-08-03T20:52:13.640Z]	<manu>	ack michael
[2021-08-03T20:52:27.311Z]	<Orie>	lost audio
[2021-08-03T20:52:32.399Z]	<identitywoman>	Michael: part of this process is mimicing real life - provicne issuing DL or country issuing passport.
[2021-08-03T20:53:25.122Z]	<dmitriz>	q+ to ask David to clarify re implicit assumption
[2021-08-03T20:53:25.846Z]	<identitywoman>	michael: they do keep a copy - they have copies of them or ability to re-generate.
[2021-08-03T20:53:40.454Z]	<dmitriz>	q-
[2021-08-03T20:54:12.178Z]	<Orie>	+1 to discussing "recommendations for retention, statefulness, and persistance"
[2021-08-03T20:54:14.312Z]	<identitywoman>	michael: it is assumed it will retain information for it to maintain API - when maintaining revocation lists it will
[2021-08-03T20:54:18.089Z]	<manu>	q?
[2021-08-03T20:54:20.275Z]	<Orie>	it is a much longer discussion
[2021-08-03T20:54:31.842Z]	<Orie>	q+
[2021-08-03T20:54:37.480Z]	<manu>	ack Orie
[2021-08-03T20:54:39.520Z]	<identitywoman>	Michael: we don't need to link with the revocation list api
[2021-08-03T20:55:13.394Z]	<identitywoman>	orie: reading what we have today it is undefined behavior - cases where you would like it to be defined positively from a negative perspective or positive perspective.
[2021-08-03T20:55:37.912Z]	<identitywoman>	orie: both valid use-cases it is undefined behavior today - we are planning to define some of that behavior.
[2021-08-03T20:55:52.318Z]	<identitywoman>	I heard concern about the issue being defined in a way for honey pot of credentails.
[2021-08-03T20:56:09.356Z]	<identitywoman>	orie: I don't think we are planning on defining that behavior.
[2021-08-03T20:56:47.486Z]	<Orie>	for example, our prototype that passes all the tests, does not support persistance at all.
[2021-08-03T20:57:23.927Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: writing issue out
[2021-08-03T20:57:36.207Z]	<Orie>	please closee this issu
[2021-08-03T20:57:41.360Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: do we want to close this issue - or keep open as tracking issue
[2021-08-03T20:57:53.129Z]	<Orie>	and open a better issue without confusion
[2021-08-03T20:58:13.682Z]	<TallTed>	I'd hold open until new issue opens
[2021-08-03T20:58:26.556Z]	<identitywoman>	ore: please close issue and create a new issue better articulated.
[2021-08-03T20:58:32.497Z]	<Orie>	agree with Ted
[2021-08-03T20:58:45.137Z]	<Orie>	only close if there is a better issue to track it
[2021-08-03T20:59:25.096Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: writing in issue create better issue to track concern. group concerned it is vague.
[2021-08-03T21:00:50.696Z]	<identitywoman>	manu: please put scoping on mailing list - and go through Joe's concrete proposal on PRs and issues.
